It's only costing me about $3 to get 30 copies of say 6 10 page fans in Anzapa.
I can afford $3 but I can't afford what Bruce is spending on this and Bruce is unemployed
at the moment.
He's supposed to be going overseas and he's also furnishing a new house.
I'm not that dedicated.
So the panel obviously doesn't think then that the possibility of video cassette fans
ends is on.
I think it's quite likely now.
Just imagine it's very good.
You can have it.
The members are now in the hands of the alternative culture.
They will not go back to the people who put up the money.
In another two years you will probably be able to get the money back.
I think it's viable.
At the World Convention last year there was a section on the techniques.
A whole session in the convention very very popular on the techniques of animation.
This was a terrific crowd getter.
The videotape at the moment is unreal to fandom.
I'm lucky because I'm studying videotape and things like that and I have access to
machines and tape.
It doesn't cost much.
But yeah, that's what it is.
Sir, are we talking about fandom or communication technology?
Oh god.
We're talking about communication.
We're talking about communication amongst bands.
That's right.
Practicality of communication.
As a matter of fact, the best method of communication amongst bands isn't fan-seeing
at all.
It's only one side of it.
The other one is conventions.
For those people who would like to have a bird's-eye view of the Australian conventions,
I've got the Australian Convention handbooks here as from the National Convention number
three.
And if anybody would like to have a look at these after the panel, I've got only two
left to be able to give to them.
It's now the 19th Somerset Place Melbourne.
You may have remembered.
This is Eastercon 72, the 10th Australian Science Fiction Convention at Melbourne University,
cheaply memorable for the complete absence of laboratories.
Eastercon 73, Mini-Melcon 71, Etherline 2, Journal of the Melbourne Science Fiction.
I don't believe it.
Never was.
Eastercon 1968, 7th Australian Science Fiction Convention 1966, which started off the modern
Renaissance.
Bow, everybody.
Bow your heads in reverence.
The Wolf Convention Program book for last year.
Containing Harlan Ellison's signature.
Oh, wow.
It's a small signature too.
Can you stand in there, sir?
It also has to put his hand prints in there.
Art Plate from the 9th Australian Science Fiction Convention handbook.
I knew it.
Yes, Lou?
20 questions.
I've got a fan.
Now, this thing called communication.
Is it more important to them to communicate and give feedback, or have they considered
writing in other fields?
What their attitude would be to writing in these other fields?
Would they decline to write, say, a column in a newspaper or some other magazine?
Railway, but lack of sleep.
Yeah, well, I for one have thought of the idea of writing professionally.
Hasn't everybody.
Also, it's one stage I applied for a cadet journalist, but decided against it because
of the rat race, as it really is.
Writing-wise, not much otherwise.
I wouldn't like films and photography and stuff like that.
But some of those things, I don't do it for communication.
That's done for my satisfaction, whereas fanzine is done for feedback.
It's very strange.
Paradox.
There's other satisfaction which doesn't require feedback.
Yeah, well, to answer Lou's question for myself, as Lou knows,
Liam and I are doing some work at the moment outside.
Our side-fanzine is complete.
It's a very strange thing.
Cancer is a very finished thing that we're doing.
But from what we've been doing, and I've been writing some short stories,
which are pretty terrible at the moment.
Yeah, I think there's probably more satisfaction in doing something which I know
could appeal to a larger audience than in doing a fanzine.
Fanzines are easy.
Fanzines are very easy to write.
But to write anything outside that feels this hard.
I personally don't think that I spend much time on the fanzine.
I don't want to try and get a perfect looking thing.
Sometimes I do a second draft.
Sometimes I just whack it up straight there.
I've got my little bottle of Corfu.
I like sniffing it, as Michael Cooney would say.
And that's all there is to it.
I can whack out a stencil in about 12 minutes or something.
Do you think you would get that kind of satisfaction that you get out of fanzines?
I don't know if I get it.
If I get it, I get a satisfaction out of fanzines now.
You're upsetting me.
Well, look, we're going to have to wind this panel up.
So I think we'll just finish with Bruce Gillespie.
Feel right to...
Just making one point about this business of challenge in fanzines.
People contribute to fanzines on several levels,
one of which is just a fun thing.
And they do something without being terribly self-critical about what they do.
Other people use fanzines to cut their literary teeth
to find out the limits of what they can and can't do
to improve their writing and so forth.
As a matter of fact, some of the most popular science fiction authors,
some of our best authors, Ted White, Harlan Ellison, are fans
and cut their literary teeth.
It's all in the business, isn't it?
Yeah.
Some of these people that earn their living by writing,
which is the only real test,
are fans and learn to write within fanzines.
I think the term is worth fans, surely.
No, ah, this is still a fan.
He wouldn't go to conventions.
Are we hiding? You still a fan?
No, I'm not a fan.
What are you?
He's a proper company for his reporting.
Just because you're taking conventions,
I mean, I don't like fanzines, but I...
I don't think there are a lot of things that fans...
I don't consider myself a fan, probably a lexed fan,
you know, like a lexed Catholic,
it still hangs onto you.
They leave charisma there.
What turns you on as meaning the people?
No, is it the people?
No, it's a...
I think once you've read Science Fiction
and been part of fan,
if you've done it at all seriously,
it never fully lets you go.
You can't escape.
Suffer withdrawals from Science Fiction.
I've got to go to the office to cut that literary paper
for Leicester Cones magazine.
Lots of fans cut their paper
in Leicester Cones magazine before they were on the fanzines.
That's true.
In every old, amazing, there was a little bit of fanzine.
Well, look, if David Grigl or Ken Ford won anything else to say,
just before we round off this panel...
I'm struck.
I would say that I don't think fandom is a way of life.
I don't think fandom is a goddamn hobby.
But your boss goes straight to his death.
I think that...
I think with Bill Wright that fandom is a process that we all go through.
You know, I'd go through it.
Some of us don't go through it, though.
But I also like to add my little personal little one.
Fan of the bloody nuisance.
Well, that's a good concluding note.
Yeah, true.
Turn these off, please.
We'll end this.
Let's bring round some cheers.
It's good fun.
I'm a bit of a masterclass.
Make them all clap us, Mr Chairman.
Can I give us a clap?
Of science fiction writers,
if every one's agreeable to that.
In about ten minutes time.
I've been asked to moderate this...
...thrilling panel.
The subject of which I've forgotten.
I think it's something to do with ethnic Aussie SF.
Or words to that nature.
The gentleman on my right is Mr Eric Harris Harris.
A resident of South Australia.
And an author of some note, if you know your vision of tomorrows.
Eric had several stories in the early issues.
He also published a book on astronomy.
I have a faintest idea what his occupation is.
But that doesn't really matter.
This gentleman here is Wynne Whiteford.
And the hobbyist team, John Foester.
Earlyist John Ozzie.
Right.
As regards ethnic Australian SF,
I will now pass you over firstly to John Foester to hear his comments on the subject.
I think it must have been a conventional long time ago.
Well perhaps it was even before we had conventions again that...
...this subject arose certainly not for the first time.
But I think the first time, if I can recall,
and there was a little bit of chat to and fro,
probably involving Lee Harding.
And I think also involving John Baxter.
About the problem of writing uniquely Australian SF.
And Mervyn Barrett.
Who of course is always sensible about these things.
He wrote briefly suggesting that...
...we shouldn't be concentrating on Australian, uniquely Australian SF.
Mervyn always likes to think cosmically.
And so in this particular case he said,
gentlemen let us think globally.
Let us try to write uniquely Terran SF.
Now I think that what Mervyn said is actually quite relevant to what's going on here today.
There are lots and lots of ethnic SF types around.
There's American SF, there's British SF,
there's German SF, there's certainly Polish and Eastern European SF.
And all of these are very, very distinguishable.
Perhaps with a few very notable exceptions.
And to add one other uniquely nationalistic kind of SF doesn't seem to me to add very much to the pool.
And what we do need to do perhaps is to write a science fiction.
Which is suitable for everyone, not just for one country.
Over and out.
Right.
Well, I think we should consider the two types,
or the two distinct types of writing Australian SF.
If it comes to that, there is the form which utilises local background colour.
This is the simplest form.
And this applies really only if you're writing for local markets.
Because you haven't got much chance of selling a science fiction novel on the international market.
That is say based in Australia.
Although Cordway and Smith did it rather successfully.
I'm going to ask Eric now, who has written science fiction for the local market.
And if he could tell me if he's found it effective or not.
Well quite frankly I have not found it effective.
The general tendency seems to be amongst publishers anyway,
that we're not going to take a chance on the local boys.
The reason for this is pretty well understood by everybody that's attempted to write science fiction for a local market.
Or for that matter any form of writing for the local market.
That you have the problem of distribution.
You have the problem of working in your own genre so to speak.
And the problem of distribution more or less rules out any hope of either launching a magazine,
contributing to a magazine specifically for Australian conditions.
Or for that matter of writing for Australian conditions for an overseas market.
Except in a very limited sphere.
Which we attempted to do in the Lake Lamented Vision.
I think there are a very large number of people throughout the world that are interested in the exotic.
And the exotics anywhere where you're not.
And that of course includes Australia.
And there's no doubt about it there isn't an abysmal ignorance of Australia.
And particularly the urban Australia scene.
It'll only be the generally understood comic science fiction side.
If you like of the outback with camels and the didgeridoo's and such like.
But on the whole, no I don't think that we do have any satisfactory outlet for local Australian talent.
I suppose that as I said before that the exotics always where you're not.
And therefore there will be a limited amount.
But as John pointed out a full novel length science fiction.
The general idea is to write it in the neighbourhood of the novella.
And this of course limits you to a certain extent.
To develop a theme fully to understand the Australian background is very unlikely to be done in anything under 8000 words.
And once you do that I'm afraid you'll have to rely upon an international market and not a local market.
I know I've tried very hard particularly in the sphere of children science fiction.
And in this alone you've got to be extremely careful anyway.
And the background here is far too localised.
Our children are urban. They are in fact world urbanites already.
And fast losing whatever Australian characteristics that they would be able to recognise in a children's novel.
I was speaking now in writing for children but the same thing also applies to adult science fiction.
No quite frankly I don't see that the local market is going to be much of an outlet for budding science fiction writers of any style.
The avant-garde or the old stuff.
Well considering the second aspect I know one writer, a very prominent science fiction writer in this country
who to me constantly infuses Australian characteristics into his stories.
This of course is Bert Chandler.
And he operates in the tried and proven way of supposedly writing about the far future
and at the same time writing about the here and now.
His rim world stories as most of you know are really very fanciful variations on his own experience
on the coastal run around Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand.
His characters many of them are just about as strion as you can get.
But because these stories are not localised and recognisably Australian because they are set in the far, far future
Bert is obviously finding a way of writing a form of Australian science fiction.
He has a novel coming from Ren Publishers in Melbourne, a new firm, paperback publisher
which is an expansion of his story The Better Pill which is in vision.
And it is a novel about a futuristic Australia which was not accepted by any publisher overseas
which I think seems to indicate the point that you must write globally for science fiction.
Now when you've been writing stuff many, many years ago when you're overseas in America and in England
did you consciously at any time when you were working for those markets
try to inject Australian elements into your writing?
Well no, frankly no. I think economically you have only one major market that is America
for the simple reason that you've got a population of a couple of hundred millions
and this is about the only one where you can get a magazine with circulation approaching a couple of hundred thousand.
Now this is a part of thinking not only science fiction but other types of magazines that I have contributed to.
I think that what it is possible to do is what Frank Reining did in one story that comes very much to mind
the place of the throwing stick. I don't know if you remember that. I think it appeared in... was it Galaxy?
Fantastic Universe and then a New World in England.
That's right, certainly in one of the American ones first.
Now that, this, some of you may remember, dealt with the Warmer Rocket Range
extrapolated a little bit into the future where a large rocket was going up
and an Aboriginal managed to get down near the launching pad and throw a boomerang into the vines that controlled the direction of the rocket
so that you had the most primitive type of weapon destroying or ranking probably the most advanced type of about the place.
Now that in a sense was a bit of a gimmick story. It was essentially Australian
because it's the only place where you could have that sort of thing happening.
So that's another special case.
Do you think there's any point in exploring the exotic part of Australia for overseas markets?
I mean like having a spaceport in the centre of Australia, do you think overseas that this is what it would accept?
This is a reasonable extrapolation and marketing gimmick?
Just possible, but I think that frankly I think it strange the credibility gap a bit far.
I think you'd, again, to have the heavier spaceports where in countries where most of the space development is taking place.
I don't think it would include Warmer there.
I think the Australian locale in this case is a once only job.
Yes.
You might get away with it once and it's about all. And if you've done it well nobody else can do it.
That's right.
Yes, nobody else can introduce a Warmering letter.
John, do you think there's a quality about any Australian science fiction writing which does set it apart from the American or British equivalent?
Well, it seems to me that there's scarcely enough Australian science fiction to do this.
And if you were to try and summarize it, I think it's really a matter of saying that most Australian writers have their work published in British magazines.
And consequently the sort of fiction that seems to represent Australian science fiction is the sort of stuff that appeals to British editors.
Now, it may appeal to British editors either because they like to see the colonials making good,
or it may appeal to the British editors because it didn't appeal to the American editors who pay a lot more.
Now, if it's the case that it didn't appeal to the American editors, then of course one could assume that,
or one could assume in the days when there were a lot more American editors that perhaps the stories were so attention grabbing.
Nowadays, when there are fewer editors and the prejudices might be very difficult to get around,
it may be a different matter, but of course then there are no British magazines nowadays, apart from New World.
I think it's fair enough to say that in the past, most Australian science fiction has been written by people who don't make the full time thing of it
with the way even some of the British writers have done.
Bert Chandler is about the nearest and of course he does quite well without the science fiction.
Because I think the ideal thing is to sell a story in America first and then later in Britain, sometimes you can bring that off,
but you get about five times as much of it in the States as John has pointed out.
But one thing that I think, Garmin, is that it is a field where editor contact is pretty important.
If you can actually rough a story out and then contact the editor either by phone or else take the thing along to him
just in a rough day up full and talk it over with him.
And then sure, the sale, now you can't do this from a distance.
Now I found that I was having to operate this way in America, to some extent, and then later when I went to England,
I found that I sold mostly to Carnell because I could go along and actually talk to him or ring him up.
Now this seems a tremendous amount of possible lost time in duplicating a story that may have been put in by somebody else.
Well perhaps one that you've never heard of but the editor may know.
I think it's fairly important to be absolutely sure that you're selling the thing before you start to reveal that thing.
I've got one little point about that and this is very important for everybody to pay very great attention
to. I once wrote a very short story called The Superdense Man.
I thought it was extremely good. I sent it to America and they told me, yes, this is a little bit too, it needs pruning.
You're obviously a young author and this needs pruning. I wasn't young, I'm in my 50s, but it said it needs pruning.
So it got sent back, at least the rejection slip had a pen and ink sign on the editor on it.
I sent it to Michael Moorcock before New World took its first plunge and he said, very good Eric,
but it's a little bit too broad approach. It needs a secondary theme. It needs to be a little bit larger.
I sent it to the ABC, exactly the length that it was. And it was very important. It's the same story and it wasn't touched.
Yes Ron, I always make a practice of giving it a far more copy than he needs so that he can cut a bit out to please himself
and he still doesn't really have a story.
But now, there's been a lot of talk about loyalty in Australian professional magazine again and all that sort of thing.
Well, I'm really sure if I was the editor of such a magazine I would not consider trying to get it off the ground
using stories by local writers, using an Australian low car.
Every second or third issue I might like to do this, put in a story like that.
But I can't see a magazine using the work of Australian writers who wrote solely about Australian problems,
Australian futures and Australian environment. It wouldn't be exotic enough.
John, what do you think are the hopes for an Australian magazine?
Well, you ask me this at each successive conventionally. It's quite obvious you're not satisfied with the answer.
Get more doom laden. But on that particular facet of it, we would need stories from overseas writers as well, wouldn't we?
Frankly, I've said this at the other conventions, so you know already.
You can't make a go of it in Australia in the Orthodox way. You can't do it with a newsstand magazine.
Now, if anything should convince people of that, it's what happened with rats.
Rats, I don't think, has got many claims with all due respect to the editors.
And the many authors whose work has appeared in there who are in this hall today, myself except the professor.
I don't think the rats had a terribly perfect... that had my villain with pessimistic.
Has a very professional attitude towards either the writers or the readers for that matter.
Certainly it's improved as time's gone by. They proved it could be done.
They proved it could be done if you were willing to lose that many hundred dollars a month it could be done.
And frankly, I think that rats showed that something which had rather broader appeal than a science fiction magazine still couldn't succeed.
Consequently, if you're trying to sell something in a science fiction line, you'd probably have to give it a title like,
very small, that is science fiction, then about two inch letters, four of it.
And a science fiction forum.
Perhaps people might just confuse it with another magazine and you get your money that way.
I really feel that at a time when England can't support a science fiction magazine,
talk about Australia doing it is really getting way out.
If you consider just the sales that amazing and fantastic have in the States.
And the fact that in Australia magazine would have additional problems of distribution over and above those,
which amazing and fantastic fact.
I think it's quite obvious that an orthodox approach to a science fiction magazine in Australia just wouldn't succeed.
I don't think that an orthodox one would succeed either.
But it might have a better chance and that would be to try to do it in the form of a little literary magazine,
except that you pay the authors.
And this, that's a possibility provided you're willing to put a $1.50 or $2 price tag on it.
And since Vertex has done just that, put the price on it, and it's published some pretty dreadful material,
but I don't think it'll survive.
But if Vertex does survive, then it suggests that there's possibly a market for a high priced magazine,
in which case Australia might succeed, provided that you're willing to sell about 150 copies in Australia and the rest in America.
Merrick, have you had any experience submitting to the local fiction type magazines like the KG Murray chain or any of those people?
What sort of response have you had from them?
Very generous and on the whole, where they criticise, quite constructive and useful criticism, also a couple of sales.
On the whole, I think that the KG Murray and that type of magazine is a very good outlet for anybody attempting to break into a market.
In fact, it's one of the easiest ways, I would say, as far as local publishers are concerned for anything of book length,
so I'd say you've got a different story.
Harking back to John's discussion of the possibility of an Australian magazine,
I really do feel that a shot in the arm, such as has been given by the literary grants recently by this present government,
might have some sort of formal approach to get some form of subsidy for this sort of thing.
Quite obviously any art form these days requires heavy subsidy, I think.
The fact that the Lolli Shops and the big stores are absolutely chock-a-block full of science fiction
and most of it rehash from way back seems to suggest to me that there's an eager public waiting to read this stuff.
And as they are doing so, the problems are mainly distribution and or virtually taking a financial chance.
Now, quite obviously we can't do this, as you say, any magazine as you do like this,
is bound to fly for a few months and then hit the deck.
But with a government subsidy, and this I think requires some careful thought on the part of people that are not only writers,
but aspiring writers, to lobby or to, in some, if you like, a quasi-official sense,
say this convention or any convention for that matter, to make some approach to some official in this respect,
to say, well, is it possible to have a literary shot in there, somewhat similar to the Council of Arts,
the job that was done for New Worlds in England?
What do you think is possible, is it that John? Do you think it's...
Well, after handing out one and a half million, they're probably willing to throw a few hundred in the direction of science fiction.
But then Bert Chandler, as I said, doesn't need it.
The approach that's being used by the federal government is, I think, to support ventures which have been started.
And this seems to me to make some sort of business sense.
How do the rest of you feel about the rather sharp division here between science fiction and other material?
Do you think a blurring of that line of demarcation might help?
I think if you found that sort of thing in some of Koji Murray's publications,
how men has been running things that you can only call science fiction stories for quite a long while.
I think the Tenth and Mortal is one I remember missing about ten years ago.
Oh, they do, do it steadily. They've even published Jack Waddon's.
That's right.
Waddon, when David Brodick was editing, the whole business of Australian science fiction and how it actually works out,
I think is best demonstrated by a little chore I had several months ago.
Wake up, Robin.
I was engaged for a couple of months working on a projected multimedia spectacle,
as it was called at one stage, with a theatre in Melbourne.
Now, initially, two writers were engaged to work up a synopsis,
sort of utilising all these elements, live actors, music and screens.
And I submitted a synopsis and the other writer submitted a synopsis
and we had a meeting at the table one night and the synopsis passed around and we also commented on it.
And the other writers' synopsis included among its plot gimmicks,
Ares Rock, an aboriginal dance, various, or a magician, a medieval magician,
but I don't think the Opera House came into it.
But we had much talk and to do about this and in half an hour,
we decided that although the arts, people in charge of artistic grants,
would be terribly pleased to see so much Australia scattered through the production,
that when you have an opportunity like this, it's best to go the whole hog and do something
which has meaning for everybody rather than which will just appeal to a minority.
And so all those ideas were tossed out and we immediately went to work on
something with much broader scope which would be completely Australian
in the people working on the production and we were confident that this was sufficient,
that why limit yourself to just one small thing when you can reach a whole audience?
And I think this is something science fiction does and has to do,
that it has the ability to reach past national barriers and someone in Russia
or South Africa can read a story written by somebody in America
and the national characteristics don't contribute all that much to a success.
Are there any questions from the audience?
Yes sir.
One aspect that worries me about this is the colonial question about should there be
something Australian in the future and there's all concepts,
it seems to me that the concept of insisting that science fiction be a part of
Australia's and Australian countries and so on is that another critical matter
to stay from the sort of nature of this?
Yes.
It's one thing that's good enough for us to go on to try to have magazines and so forth
that use Australian authors because it may well be that Australian authors are restricted
from the opportunities that other authors may have elsewhere in the world
and it's so worth what providing for them but it's quite a different matter
to do so with the sort of paper on the emphasis.
I think what Bert Chandler has done is very good.
I don't think Bert is doing it out of patriotic way but that's because it's so convenient.
How do you do it quite well?
Well I think in all high expectations what Wyn was saying that the two distinct forms
that we're familiar with, American science fiction and British science fiction,
were created by markets, not by individual writers or any patriotism.
It was the editors who helped to form the particular literary climate
and until we have a consistent publishing field here,
we will continue to ape overseas styles.
But if we had a really dynamic, John W. Campbell working in Australia,
he would help to create a form of science fiction,
I'm sure it would be easily recognisable as different to the overseas.
Yes Bill?
Could I bring up a point on that just before we hit that?
Why don't we touch that?
On this point about the two different types of science fiction developing in America and in England,
I think the American one was governed largely by people like Campbell
and the other editors at Femin, the other editors of the major papers there, Poucher.
In England I think it was set mainly by that little scoring list that used to appear in New Worlds.
You know where each story was rated first, second, third, fourth, fifth for the stories for the previous issue.
Can't it have made them up you know?
Well no, he took a bit of notice on that.
I know he might have had to build them up a bit.
I think he had to.
I think he did get some replies.
He used to write and tell me the actual percentage of readers who actually wrote letters into that thing.
Yeah there wasn't many but I think he did have a sort of a proper feedback there.
I think he did.
I think he did on top of John Brunner.
Oh that doesn't seem true.
I think he did actually.
It's not one of those, anyway.
He took them seriously.
Well I wouldn't say that.
I wouldn't exaggerate myself.
Well the stories I always liked, we always wound up down the bottom of those things you know that's it.
I don't know if you like the story.
Ryan Aldis Ballard and all of that.
Bill what were you going to say?
The point that I had to make was that we had a very little distinctive culture of our own.
We're virtually an ex-clay of the European American culture.
And that if we're going to produce anything distinctively Australian,
sort of degenerate things that are a bit huge,
that we're used to.
Yes but Bill, this is purely the background.
I do maintain that there are things with the national character which are valid and which will come out in a story of right,
whether it's said 200 years in the future, it will come out but not until there's a market to develop it.
The people in the megalopolis of Toronto are very much the same sort of people there are in the megalopolis of Melbourne.
You say that Bill, can I hear it again?
I've written it many times but I'm not sure.
I've written it in the Megalopolis of London before you guys came out to the hysterics.
I'd like to answer you on one of those points.
I was many years ago in the megalopolis of London
and at that particular time they were doing a serial called Journey into Space
and it had a jazzy position between Mars and Australia.
They were a very clever and interesting one too.
And one of the characters in there, Mitch, was, I've never, Australia is just cardboard characters as far as I'm concerned,
but I remember being completely thrilled by this Australian background.
I don't know whether an Australian author wrote this particular thing,
but nevertheless there's no argument about it.
You do write best about that which you know.
And if you know the Australian locale you can write far more convincingly than you would say in America.
Good.
I'm going to wind this up in a moment.
We've got time for one more question.
Here's Ken.
We've got that already, Ken.
Yeah, that's what I reckon.
Any dissension on that point?
No, I consider Jack Wattons an Australian.
Yes, I do.
Okay, well thank you John, Wyn, Eric and thank you Lee for vacating this so the next program item can go on as scheduled.
Thank you for your attention.
Here's a lecturer at Linda's University and she's going to be speaking on Children's Fantasy.
I asked but it should be said that I don't know very much about science fiction before I started.
And so I'm saying it.
I read science fiction a bit but I couldn't profess to be expert about it in any way at all.
But it occurred to me that readers of science fiction might be aware that they have some things in common with readers of fantasy,
but that they might be less aware that they have the same things in common with readers of children's books.
The title of a collection of essays that arose out of the MLA's forum on science fiction,
which was edited by Thomas Clairison in 71, is I think interesting in this respect.
It's called SF, The Other Side of Realism.
And the title of a more recently published collection of essays on children's literature,
also arising out of an MLA seminar, The Seminar on Children's Literature, was The Great Excluded.
Now the definite article used in both of those titles indicates, I think, a degree of unawareness of each other among the two groups.
It seems to me that we may be involved in the same difficulties and engaged in the same struggle
without benefiting from mutual support and encouragement.
So I'm here today not as an expert on science fiction, which I couldn't claim to be but to express,
and I hope illicit, feelings of solidarity.
The introductory essay in that Clairison collection begins with the point made by Fred Poll at the MLA SF forum in 68.
The point that, and I quote, it didn't matter what had been written in the field of science fiction.
The real difficulty in obtaining a critical hearing, particularly among librarians and academics at all levels,
lay in that from 1926, when Hugo Gernsback founded Amazing Stories, the first pulp devoted exclusively to the genre,
until the 1940s at least, SF had lived amid garish covers and poor prints and rough edges,
so that you usually carry them home under your coat because you didn't want anyone to know what you were reading.
That situation is quite familiar to me and to students in my children's literature course.
They tend to carry their books around under their coat too.
But the important phrase is the real difficulty in obtaining a critical hearing.
And it arose, I think, out of being identified in the critical mind with popular rather than with serious literature.
And this is a difficulty which children's literature also faces,
although it has the support of some librarians who are known as children's librarians,
and some academics like myself who are known as our expert on kiddie lit.
It's not discussed in histories of 20th century literature,
nor do works of children's literature any more commonly than science fiction books turn up on academic English courses devoted to the modern novel.
The other similarity between the position of science fiction and the position of children's literature
is indicated by that title of the Clairson collection of essays, The Other Side of Realism.
In fact, although like SF, children's books, especially written for children, can be traced back earlier to the early 18th century.
In fact, Golliver's travels is a very interesting text for the history of both our genres.
The concept of children's literature dates from exactly the same period, that is the 1870s and 1880s,
as does the concept of science fiction.
And it was affected in exactly the same way by the acceptance of realism as a criterion for seriousness in the novel.
In fact, I was very, very struck when I read this in Clairson's own essay in this collection.
This paragraph, he points out that the realist doctrine, we might call it,
was in fact based at least in the way that Zola argued for it on some analogy with scientific procedure,
so that the modern realist novel could have been called science fiction, but it wasn't.
Instead, he said, that name has been given to a kind of fantasy which took shape as a diverse, recognisable genre during the same period,
which saw the rise of literary realism 1870 to 1910.
It made use of such established conventions as the imaginary voyage and the utopia,
and had seen earlier expression in the works of such authors as Mary Shelley and Poe,
but it didn't coalesce into a distinctly separate modern fantasy until the last decades of the 19th century.
The parallel with children's literature is very, very exact.
In fact, I opened the very first lecture I ever gave at Fender's on children's literature by pointing to just that period as a period of crisis.
It certainly was decisive in the development of 20th century prose fiction and attitudes towards it.
In England, the advocate of that new wave fashion as it then was of realism was Henry James,
and from the point of view of children's literature, the opposition between Henry James and Robert Louis Stevenson is most instructive.
From the point of view of science fiction, I suppose it's the opposition between James and H.G. Wells, which is illuminating.
Now at the time that realism was adopted from France into English criticism, it seemed to mean two disparate things.
First, that the artist should aim for very similitude in presentation.
And secondly, that novels should include previously prohibited material, which at that time largely referred to sex and the working class.
Now, as far as the requirement for various similitudes concerned, it's only really checkable, if you think about it, in novels about contemporary life.
Novels set in the past, in the future, or in some completely imaginary world, are simply not checkable for their very similitude.
And Henry James demanded that novels be checkable in this way.
He liked, he said, to be able to say yes or no at any stage of reading a novel.
And he suggested that this is how novels should be read, dispassionately, objectively, with the reader keeping a sufficient distance from the book to be able to judge its truth.
In other words, I presume its truth to life in what was being presented.
Now you can see how this rules out fantasy, which is not about real life by definition.
And you can see also how it rules out the historical novel, which might have been checkable once, but no longer is.
And an SF book, which is set in the future, is in a very odd position in this argument.
It perhaps can be seen in retrospect to have been a very good book, or it can become a very good book.
But it can't be a good book, or be known to be a good book at the time of publication.
Well that's an absurd situation, since the book hasn't changed, nor has the literary value by which it's being measured, that of being true to life.
So if the book hasn't changed and the values haven't changed, how can it get better?
Or qualify in any other way for being called good?
And I think that the tendency to make the value of SF dependent on the accuracy of its predictions
was a somewhat indefensible critical attitude which was brought about by pressure from that criterion of being true to life.
Which was an effect again of the rise to dominance of realism as the definition of a serious novel.
A novel that could be considered as a work of art.
The criticism of children's literature has been forced into some equally absurd postures you'll be glad to know, by this pressure from realism.
If you read books about children's literature and turn to the chapter on fantasy, you'll almost invariably find the critic expending a great deal of energy,
explaining how it is that fantasy is good for children, though not good for adults.
They will tell you that children like fantasy and adults don't, and probably explain this with some reference to the recapitulation theory of human development.
That is the theory sometimes called the culture epoch theory where each individual recapitulates the development of the species as a whole.
Thus, according to this theory, children are like primitives.
They're ignorant and curious about the world and seek explanations in fantasy because they cannot differentiate between a plausible and an implausible explanation.
And you'll notice in passing that this assumes that children like fantasy because they believe it's true, whereas adults dislike it because they know it's not.
There's a great deal of interesting discussion hinging on that too.
For the moment, all I wish to point out is that critics of children's literature have come up with elaborate explanations for what may not be the case at all,
namely that children like fantasy and adults don't, largely because they've been unwilling to face the fact that fantasy had been merely abandoned by influential writers and critics
when they adopted the somewhat narrow version of realism which flourished in the first half of this century.
And this seems to me to be exactly comparable to the reaction of SF critics who were willing to have the excellence of SF as literature,
depend on the accuracy of its predictions, so that it could be seen, at least in retrospectives, having been true to life, or being true to life.
Now, the second aspect of realism that I mentioned was the inclusion of previously prohibited material.
Now, that was advocated by Henry James in an essay that he published on the brink of this century in 1899 called The Future of the Novel.
And he complained about the absence of sex, which by the way he called, quote,
the great relation between men and women, the constant world renewal, in the English novel.
The reason he advanced was that the English novel had been handicapped by its family readership, by what he called the presence of the ladies and the children,
by whom he said, in other words, I mean the reader, irreflective and uncritical.
The Future of the Novel, which he also called, in other words, the great prose fable,
rested, according to James, on what it decided to do with respect to the young.
He declared, in fact, by what it decides to do with respect to the young,
the great prose fable will, from any serious point of view, practically see itself stand or fall.
And in fact, what James was recommending was that the children be sent away to play with their mothers, of course,
so that the serious novelist could be free to talk about sex.
And since he classed all but novels about contemporary life, non-serious or romances,
that included Jules Verne and H.G. Wells as well as Robert Louis Stevenson.
This exclusion has done incalculable harm to children's reading.
Books were divided then into serious literature for adults, one might almost say adult males only,
and the rest, and the rest, seeing themselves as popular literature, defined themselves thus in negatives.
Now, since James made so much of his case rest on the young,
it's not surprising that the effect was most noticeable in the area of children's literature.
Since serious novels were defined as dealing with sex, children's literature was defined as not dealing with sex,
which has been kept out of children's books successfully for most of the last 70 years.
And the fuss you might have noticed in the press recently about what's called the new realism in children's books
has been, in fact, an attempt to reintroduce topics such as sex, politics, satire and so on into children's books,
and thus catch up 70 years later with serious adult fiction.
Now, one expects that reaction in children's literature,
but it's surprising that I've found that something very similar seemed to happen in science fiction.
Until the last few years, I understand sex has been strikingly absent from science fiction,
and there too has fairly recently, that isn't the last decade, made a comeback.
Someone might be able to put me right on that point, but it's what I've gathered from my recent reading.
I think it's an indication of the pervasiveness of that elitist critical doctrine of James's,
that it so successfully preempted the topic of sex from all other modes of serious writing, except the so-called realistic.
Well, having sketched some ways in which I believe that the rise of realism had a similar impact on the genre of children's literature,
and on the one hand, and science fiction on the other,
I'd now like to turn to some of the effects of that joint exclusion.
And it seems to me that they are by and large, though not wholly bad,
and that for that reason, it is proper to try to achieve serious critical consideration for our respective genre,
rather than to give away the whole business of literary criticism, and especially academic literary criticism, as a bad elitist job.
Now, the worst effect, I think, of being identified as popular, rather than as serious, seems to me to be conservatism.
John would get defined by publishers, bookshops, and exchanges, by an estimation which they make of a book's market.
If you go into a book exchange looking for Dune, you go to the science fiction section.
But where do you find war and peace? In the war book section? And crime and punishment in the murder mystery section?
Now, all the sections say science fiction, war, murder, romance, historical, children, and so on.
And the market for each is predicted by the publisher, and a book which has no predictable market,
and yet is clearly not serious literature, on which you might be prepared to take a risk for prestige reasons,
for instance, that it's fantasy, but it seems to be written towards adults or something, will have great difficulty in getting published at all.
You see, Mr Swift, all books about little people go into the children's section, and children are just not interested in politics,
so I'm afraid, Mr Swift, that although we thought your travel book was just fascinating, we have to turn it down.
So, stereotypes of an audience get built up by people who are obviously not willing to risk money backing an experiment
in something that's meant to be popular, whoever heard of an unpopular, popular novel.
And so, second-hand shots, I suppose.
And in fact, these stereotypes limit what reaches the audience,
and in turn make the audience more limited in its tastes, and so become self-fulfilling.
And all this operates against the emergence of outstanding or revolutionary writers,
and this operates against development, change, and advances in the genre.
So, being identified as popular rather than serious literature can have the effect of making a genre as a whole,
conservative and discouraging of experiment, which I think is a bad thing.
Another effect is to encourage the idea that popularity is an index of merit.
And I think this might, if I understand your program correctly, be reflected in your procedure for awarding your Dittmar awards on the basis of a majority vote.
Now, you might argue that anyone interested in coming to the conference must be an expert in the sense of having read a fair amount of science fiction.
But I suggest to you that that isn't a criteria used elsewhere for selecting people whose judgment you can trust.
Criticism is, I think, a very practical business.
We read the critics or reviewers whose judgment we've learned to trust in the expectation that they'll help us enjoy books.
We select those critics on the basis of experience, that is, the critics who produced more recommendations which turned out to be fulfilled in our experience of the book subsequently.
And we discriminate between critics and reviewers constantly on those grounds.
And the grounds that the critics offer to us are not those of popularity.
I don't think we'd be much influenced by a reviewer who says, read this because a million other people have read it.
No matter how many copies are, for instance, an Agatha Christie novel is sold, we won't believe that it's a better novel than crime and punishment on those grounds.
Now, in the field of children's books, all sorts of peculiar arguments are constructed to explain why popularity should be taken into account.
It's suggested, for instance, that since children's tastes are absolutely different from adults' tastes, there's no way of finding out what's best for them other than by observing their own preferences.
Thus, there was some official critical justification at hand for those who protested against the dropping of Enid Blyton from children's libraries.
But children love her books, was the cry.
You'd never hear people seriously argue that children should have lollies for breakfast just because that's what they'd prefer.
The reason being that people know that something other than taste is involved, nutrition.
And some children's literature critics try to make use of this analogy by talking about a healthy, emotional and intellectual diet for the proper mental development of children.
And I'm afraid that sort of talk makes me feel a bit sick.
I think, however, that one can construct an argument without having recourse to that analogy on the ground, that it's better in the long run for people to have experience of a variety of tastes, and even that some tastes are more satisfying than others.
So the child who gets a proper balanced, nutritious diet, all tasting of lollies, is still being deprived.
I believe you've probably come across arguments of that sort in relation to the supposed dehydrated, carefully selected tablet-formed meals of the supposed future.
But the general point is, of course, that are made in those books, and that I'm making now, is that tastes can develop and they can improve, and that in our ordinary behaviour we assume that to be so.
Even if you find some people, and some of them I'm afraid, colleagues of mine in English departments, arguing that all taste is relative and dig Gustavus Nornes Distruthandum.
And therefore, that popularity is not necessarily the best index of merit.
What we look for is qualified critics, the critics that we have learnt from our experience, that we can trust their judgement.
Now genres such as children's literature and science fiction, which were some 70 years ago or so pushed willy-nilly into the class of popular literature, have, I'm suggesting, suffered from the temptation to regard popularity as an index of merit.
So on these and other grounds, I think it's vital to keep fighting for critical recognition for the best books in our genres, and not to give up and disgust, no matter how irrational or prejudiced the opposition may be.
Now within children's literature, the impression I have after a few years fairly intensive reading and teaching, is that the majority of the best books published for children over the last 40 or 50 years have been fantasy of one kind or another.
And the reasons for this are not far to seek.
Phantasists found it virtually impossible to find an audience elsewhere, that is to get their work published except as children's literature.
So fantasists, no matter how good, were forced to write for children.
A realistic writer's work could get published as an adult book, even if it concerned a child or an adolescent, like a book like The Catcher in the Rye is a case in point.
But a fantasist could not.
And on the other hand, it's also true that fantasy was so despised, that one could get away with a great deal by writing in fantasy which one could not get away with in realism for children.
So a writer who wanted to write for children would be likely to turn to fantasy to escape the cramping restrictions placed on pseudo realism for children.
Now when I think of these best works over the last 50 years, I find that titles that come most readily to mind tend not to be works in science fiction.
But if anything, they're oriented towards the past and towards historical fantasy.
I'm thinking of not only writers like Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, but Philip of Pierce from Tom's Midnight Garden, Alan Garner's Owl Service, Elador, Moon of Gomrath,
William Main's Earth Fasts, Lucy Boston's Green No Books, Mary Norton's Borrowers Books, and most recently, Russell Holman's Marvellous Book, The Mouse and His Child, which I recommend.
Now I'm afraid that the reason for the absence of science fiction from the list is not far to see either.
And that is this outlet. The outlet for adult science fiction was available in the magazines, which you've just been talking about, and which have played such an important part in the development of your genre.
And the depressing thing is that when writers can get the adult audience, especially if it's the adult male audience, that is what they'll go for, and leave second-rateers to fall back on writing for children.
I say especially in adult male audience because we might compare the situation in children's literature of science fiction with that of the historical novel, the straight historical novel.
You'll remember that the historical novel was disqualified in the same way that SF Set in the Future was disqualified from Consideration as True to Life.
And you'll remember further that the genres pushed out into the popular literature category got market-typed.
Well, it seems clear to me that science fiction got market-typed as male, and the historical novel got market-typed as female.
The readership of science fiction is, I think, still largely male, and that of the historical novel is females and children.
The historical novel has in fact flourished much more in children's literature than has, until recently, science fiction.
And that clearly shows, I think, that where a genre is relegated to women and children readers, writers would have soon write for children as for women.
But where they have an opportunity to write for a male adult audience, they will take it more readily and not entertain the possibility of writing for children.
And I suspect, although I might again be corrective, that the slow trickle of women writers into the field of science fiction has increased the chances of science fiction getting written for children,
since that's another amiable feature of the influence of sex stereotypes on reading habits that it's assumed that women will want to write for children.
Although I haven't come across as yet any work of science fiction for children, which is as good as the fantasy works which I cited earlier,
I have come across some ones that I think are very good.
And one of the features which makes books less than first-rate, I think, is the assumption that issues must be simplified for children.
And one side effect of this is that you tend to get very clear statements of the going themes and perhaps prejudices in books for children,
which is in often itself to make them interesting, reading.
So I thought that it would be of some interest to compare, in some detail, two children's books, which both seem to me to be very good, though not of the first rank,
one of which is science fiction, though not purely science fiction, and the other, historical fantasy.
Both of these are described as mixtures, incidentally, in their blurbs.
The science fiction book is described as a mixture of science fiction and fantasy, and the historical fantasy is described as a mixture of fantasy and truth.
Now these two books, that's Madeline Lengel's Wrinkle in Time, which some of you might know, and Pauline Clark's The Twelve and the Genie,
both came out about ten years ago, I think in the same year, and Madeline Lengel's book won the Newbury Medal, the children's books in America,
and Pauline Clark's The English Medal, the Carnegie Medal.
So I think they're very comparable as books.
Now Madeline Lengel's book, A Wrinkle in Time, concerns three children who go on a quest through a tesseract or wrinkle in time in search of a scientist who's the father of two of them.
They have to rescue their father from the dark planet Camazots, which is in the power of an evil force, customarily referred to as it.
They're given some initial assistance by three aliens, I suppose they are, who in the form that they most frequently materialize before the children are three rather comic old women, which is really Mrs. What's It, Mrs. Who and Mrs. Which.
Now apart from rescuing their father, the children are, in this action, participants in a wider struggle between the evil force represented by it and the rest of the universe, which is trying to resist being engulfed.
And we gather, though it's not explained, that merely getting their father back alive constitutes a major, though temporary, victory in this ongoing struggle, something like Don Kirk, in fact.
Now the twelve of them, the genie, also involves three children and a rescue mission.
One of these children finds in these three are siblings. One of them finds in the attic of their New Yorkshire home an old bundle containing twelve century old wooden soldiers, which he unexpectedly discovers a capable of coming to life, and that they have lengthy and interesting histories of former campaigns,
and names such as Buttercrashie and Gravy and Cheehee and Stumps and so on, and that they were formerly protected by some children, or at least humans, that they refer to as the genie.
And this child, Max, who discovers them, they refer to as the new genie.
And Max and his sister, two of the children, become protectors of the gallant troupe. The troupe is known as the twelve, the children as the genie.
They learn, however, that the toys of the former property of the Bronte family, who invented the stories and endowed the toys with the history that the toys recount to them, and whose former home, Horworth, is nearby.
The existence of the soldiers, however, is a matter of historical interest, especially to literary academics, and an American professor offers to buy them for five thousand pounds, and the third child of the family, an older boy, who along with his parents and everyone else doesn't know of the special properties of animation of the soldiers, writes offering to sell them.
And as the prospect of being sent to some American museum doesn't appeal to the twelve, the two children determine to return the soldiers to their former home at Horworth instead.
But fittingly, the soldiers must be allowed to retain their dignity, freedom and independence by making the massive two or three mile trek themselves, at night and in secret, because the place is soon swarming with reporters and people both greedy and curious.
And the mission is accomplished, as is the mission in wrinkle in time, with some nasty moments and mishaps, and the toys are returned to the Horworth nursery, where they are frozen wooden soldiers with featureless faces by day and living personalities by night.
Now, the way that these two stories, which are both very interesting and readable, reveal some of the common places, as it were, of the genres to which they belong, is likely through theme and characterization, rather than through plot, as have indicated both plots are structured on the old rescue quest motif.
But consider first the themes and characterization of a wrinkle in time.
The central character in that novel is a pubescent girl, who is introduced as a plain, awkward, misfit, warmly attached to her family, but not a failure at school.
She has in fact the classical, ugly duckling attributes, raises on her teeth and mouse brown hair, and we can predict, I think, from these props that she will turn out to be a swan.
The sibling to whom she is particularly attached, and with whom she shares her adventure, is her baby brother, Charles Wallace.
Again, we can deduce that he is introduced as having, that he is special, from the fact that he is introduced as having the local reputation of being subnormal in the neighborhood, and we can deduce from that the fact that he is indeed a genius.
But just in case we're in any doubt on that point, the third page of the story, when nothing much has appeared except Meg's thoughts as she gets out bed on a windy night, her reflections are extended to include the following reminiscence.
Thinking about Charles Wallace, how did Charles Wallace always know about her? How could he always tell? He never knew or seemed to care what Dennis or Sandy were thinking. It was his mother's mind, and Meg's, that he probed with frightening accuracy.
Was it because people were a little afraid of him, that they whispered about the Murray's youngest child, who was rumored to be not quite bright? I've heard that clever people often have subnormal children. Meg had once overheard.
The two boys seemed to be nice, regular children, but that unattractive girl and the baby boy certainly aren't all there.
It was true that Charles Wallace seldom spoke when anybody was around, so that many people thought he'd never learn to talk. And it was true that he hadn't talked at all until he was almost four.
Meg would turn white with fury when people looked at him and clucked, shaking their heads sadly.
Don't worry about Charles Wallace, Meg, her father had once told her. Meg remembered it very clearly because it was shortly before he went away.
There's nothing to matter with his mind. He just does things in his own way and in his own time.
I don't want him to grow up to be dumb like me, Meg had said.
Oh my darling, you're not dumb. Her father answered, you're like Charles Wallace. Your development has to go at its own pace. It just doesn't happen to be the usual pace.
How do you know, Meg had demanded, how do you know I'm not dumb? Isn't it just because you love me? I love you, but that's not what tells me.
Mother and I have given you a number of tests, you know.
Yes, that was true. Meg had realized that some of the games her parents played with her were tests of some kind, that there had been more for her and Charles Wallace than for the twins.
IQ tests, you mean? Yes, some of them. Is my IQ okay? More than okay. What is it? That I'm not going to tell you, but it assures me that both you and Charles Wallace will be able to do pretty much whatever you like when you grow up to yourselves.
You just wait till Charles Wallace starts to talk. You'll see how right he'd been.
So of course, the two children are more than very intelligent. They're super intelligent.
There are, as you gather, two other siblings, twins who are nearly normal and don't therefore figure in the story very much.
The third participant in the adventure is, in fact, from another family.
In fact, from an underprivileged family of 11 children, which we learn within the first dozen lines of dialogue out here at Peers.
He's challenged in the woods by Meg and Charles Wallace going off to see Mrs. Watsett.
And he's asked why he's there, and he answers, I just came to get away from my family.
Charles Wallace nodded. What kind of family? They all have running noses. I'm third from the top of 11 kids. I'm a sport.
At that, Charles Wallace grinned widely. So am I.
I don't mean like in baseball, Calvin said. Neither do I. I mean like in biology, Calvin said suspiciously.
And of course, Charles Wallace knows just what he's talking about.
Now, Calvin, I think he's 14, his description of his family is,
Ronnie knows nothings among whom he is a sport because he's bright.
Seems to me to be somewhat callow, but I accept it in reading the story because the boy's only 14.
And since this book already presents itself as one in which family solidarity is emphasised,
one assumes that his contempt for his own ordinary family and his admiration for the special Murray family
will be straightened out sometime later in the story.
But what happens immediately is that the highly intelligent special Murray family takes into its bosom
and treats him like an orphan. The genius infant Charles Wallace invites him to dinner
and when Calvin denies an account of the invitation not issuing from Charles Wallace's mother,
who does after all, scientist or no scientist, have to do the cooking, Charles Wallace replies,
oh, she'd be delighted. Mother's all right. She's not one of us, but she's all right.
What about Meg? Meg has it tough, Charles Wallace said. She's not really one thing or the other.
What do you mean one of us, Meg demanded? What do you mean I'm not one thing or the other?
Not now, Meg, Charles Wallace said. Slowly, I'll tell you about it later.
So the trio who are selected for the adventure consists of two male children who belong to a select group of geniuses
and a girl who has it tough because she's neither clearly exceptional nor clearly ordinary.
And what happens is, of course, that the girl becomes the heroine of the adventure.
An adolescent love relationship develops between herself and the 14 year old Calvin.
The genius infant gets sucked in by the monster and has to be rescued along with the father.
Note that he gets sucked in precisely because he's the most intelligent and the most special of the trio.
The girl manages to pull off the rescue of both father and then subsequently brother
because out of all of them, father, Calvin, Charles Wallace and herself and the father,
she is the one who has a gift which the monster has not got.
She's told this, but she's not told what the gift is.
And here's the climax. I bet you've guessed it already.
When she has returned to the central chamber where the giant exposed brain, which is it,
has Charles Wallace imprisoned.
There was a sudden sucking and she was within.
It was as though the wind had been knocked out of her.
She gasped for breath, for breath in her own rhythm, not the permeating pulsing of it.
She could feel the inexorable beat within her body controlling her heart, her lungs, but not herself.
Not Meg. It didn't quite have her.
She blinked her eyes rapidly and against the rhythm until the redness before them cleared and she could see.
There was the brain. There was it lying, pulsing and quivering on the days, soft and exposed and nauseating.
Charles Wallace was crouched beside it.
His eyes still slowly twirling, his jaw still slack as she'd seen him before,
with the tickiness for it reiterating the revolting rhythm of it.
As she saw him, it was again as though she had been punched in the stomach,
but she had to realise afresh that she was seeing Charles and yet it was not Charles at all.
Where was Charles Wallace? Her own beloved Charles Wallace.
What is it that I've got that it hasn't got?
You have nothing that it hasn't got, Charles Wallace said proudly.
How nice to have you back dear sister. We've been waiting for you.
We knew that Mrs. Watson would send you. She's our friend, you know.
From a pouring moment Meg believed and in that moment she felt her brain being gathered up into it.
No, she screamed at the top of her lungs. No, you lie.
For a moment she was free from its clutches again. As long as I can stay angry enough it can't get me.
Is that what I have that it doesn't have?
Nonsense, Charles Wallace said. You have nothing that it doesn't have.
You're lying, she replied, and she felt only anger towards this boy who was not Charles Wallace at all.
No, it wasn't anger, it was loathing. It was hatred, sheer and unadulterated.
And as she became lost in hatred she also began to be lost in it.
The red miasma swam before her eyes, her stomach churned in its rhythm,
her body trembled with the strength of her hatred and the strength of it.
With the last vestige of consciousness she jerked her mind and body.
Hate was nothing that it didn't have. It knew all about hate.
You're lying about that and you're lying about Mrs. Watson, she screamed.
Mrs. Watson hates you, Charles Wallace said.
And that was where it made its fatal mistake.
For as Meg said automatically, Mrs. Watson loves me.
That's what she told me, that she loves me. Suddenly she knew. She knew. Love.
That was what she had that it didn't have.
She had Mrs. Watson's love and her father's and her mother's
and the real Charles Wallace's love and the twins and aunt Beese.
And she had her love for them.
And that of course is what she uses.
So it's love. Family love which achieves the rescue.
And that's what Meg has, that her male partners in adventure do not.
They have brains, she has love.
And in the final family reconciliation, Calvin is included as one of the elite Murray family,
which now has everything.
There are a number of points which I think are worth noting.
But perhaps I should talk about them after I've outlined the character and theme of Pauline Clark's book, The Twelve Magini.
The central character in this book is the young boy.
Once again, it's a young boy who has special gifts of intuition,
which make him the person for whom the toy soldiers come alive.
Once again, he's presented as intelligent, but this time just ordinarily intelligent, not a genius.
Once again, there's an older sister who shares the adventure.
Once again, what they have to offer is distinguished carefully.
He is more intense in his reaction to the toy soldiers, more passionate.
She is more careful, thoughtful and tender.
And once again, there's also a 14-year-old boy involved, this time as a said, a sibling.
And this book, an English book, avoids sex completely.
The older sibling is in fact the one who threatens the safety of the twelve and is an airing child.
You know, the typical childhood airingness, meanness, money-grubbing,
slightly bullying of younger siblings.
The explanation of the soldiers coming alive that is offered is that the genius of the Brontes brought them to life.
A metaphor for creativity, in fact, made actual and literal.
But the children of the story, Max and Jane, are not geniuses.
So why do the soldiers come to life for them?
And the explanation is predictable again.
And when Max finally reads the Brontes' juvenile with the invented history of the toy soldiers called the young men,
he reflects.
And the genius imagined them all so real, he thought to himself, that the young men,
that's the soldiers' name for themselves, still remember, they're still alive.
Could this be what it was?
And then he felt thinking of them in turn and which he loved best.
He told Jane and his mother that nobody could love anything more than he loved the twelve now.
And this was true.
He wondered if this was another reason why they were so lively, because he loved them and they trusted him.
And so it's again, the power of love coupled with the creative imagination which comes into play.
There is a somewhat religious cast to the twelve and the genius, which is also present in a wrinklin' time.
In the twelve and the genius, a friendly parson is allowed to see the twelve's triumphal re-entry into Harworth's parsonage.
And the parson, Mr. Harworthson, thought, I cannot believe it, and yet here they are before my eyes,
such is the power of genius to make things alive.
So do the creative genius echo their creator.
And this is a chord which is also struck in a wrinkle in time when Mrs. Watsit, the comforter,
explains that the children are not alone in their fight.
And when not alone you know children came Mrs. Watsit, the comforter,
all through the universe it's being fought, all through the cosmos, and my, but it's a grand and exciting battle.
I know it's hard for you to understand about size, how there's very little difference in the size of the tiniest microbe in the greatest galaxy.
You think about that, you think about that, sorry, and maybe it won't seem strange to you
that some of our very best fighters have come right from your own planet.
And it's a little planet, dears, out on the edge of a little galaxy.
You can be proud that it's done so well.
Who of our fighters been, Calvin asked?
Oh, you must know them, dear Mrs. Watsit said.
Mrs. Who's spectacles shone out at them triumphantly,
and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
Jesus, Charles Wallace said, why of course, Jesus.
Of course, Mrs. Watsit said, go on, Charles, love, there were others.
All your great artists, there have been lights for us to see by.
Leonardo da Vinci, which Calvin suggested tentatively, and Michelangelo,
and Shakespeare, Charles Wallace called out, and Bach, and Puster, and Madame Curie, and Einstein.
Now Calvin's voice rang with confidence, and Schweitzer, and Gandhi, and Buda, and Beethoven, and Rembrandt, and St. Francis, and so on.
The family background in the 12th and the genie is comfortable, intelligent, middle class,
but it's much less important there than in wrinkled in time.
And there is no, I'm glad to say, Cinderella-type rescue of a working class child
displaced out of its proper intelligence.
The genie at first.
A funny name, it's always all it is, that soldiers give max.
It gradually exposes its other conventional meanings of genius, a very creative intelligence,
and then the root sense, which is related to generate and creating life.
In fact, I have to say that although I consider both books good, I do consider the 12 and the genie better.
Because it's a subtler book, I find it less offensive in its social attitudes,
and less partisan about the values it espouses.
Madeleine Lengel places so much emphasis on the superiority of brains in the early part of the book
that she has to make the apotheosis of the power of love very melodramatic
in order to counterbalance the emphasis of the earlier book.
Now, although you might think it's a large conclusion to draw from illustrations just from two books,
I think that difference does arise from the fact that the science fiction writer writing for children
is aware that there is an alternative adult audience somewhere else for science fiction
and therefore is much more inclined to oversimplify and overdramatize when writing for children
than the writer of fantasy, historical fantasy, who has no real alternative.
Thanks for listening.
I'm going to go back to the way you think of...
...Ruthard was very bad stuff.
I didn't get past all the few pages.
What I really liked was that it was a great author and thought that I can't write.
Yes, quite.
Yes, quite. I had my book and I only read two or three of each of their books,
and I thought they were good.
The reason I chose the Madeleine Lengel book was because of the exact parallel in time
and treatment and things like that.
I don't think I chose it as a prejudice choice.
Now let me see.
Yes, all I can say is that I do think the Darden and Orton and Dainlana are quite good,
but I've only read one or two of each of their books.
What are the reviews on the Madeleine Faraway tradition here?
Hmm, yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry, I can't really answer that with very much immediate knowledge,
I never read it since I was a kid.
I think, I remember rightly, people do seem to think that's Enid Bynan's best writing.
That's where she wrote the best.
What people object to is largely the limited vocabulary of her books
and the somewhat unhappy social attitudes that some of them present.
Do you think they're not unlike the social attitudes of the Madeleine Lengel book, actually,
and that you find all over children's fiction,
but that Enid Bynan seemed to have less and less to redeem her?
The point is that she wasn't sort of banned,
she just sort of fell off the bottom of the list,
where librarians have only a certain amount of money to buy books each year,
where the standard of children's literature has been rising over the last 20 years.
She has simply gone down in merit as well as everything else because she's been surpassed, that's all.
But apart from not buying new things,
but also around the old stuff, right?
They said it wasn't going to be replaced, yeah.
I said they didn't actually take it out of the show?
No, no, but you know, as books wear out, they weren't replaced, yeah.
You compare English, French and insurance literature
as being popular but not good because of that,
but in English, Christianity and other literature as being popular but not good because of that, yeah.
We still find that there's an amount of Anglican Christianity in that as well.
Why not be involved in children's literature because of this topic?
Yeah, probably because children's libraries perhaps have less funds,
you know, that the collection will be smaller you'll find in the children's library than in adult library,
and granted that they have small funds, they feel that they have to be careful in their choosing.
But it's also the fact that children's librarians feel, you know, the ones that I've talked to
feel that they have an important responsibility in selecting books for children,
you know, that you can in fact influence children's tastes by the range of what is available to them.
And, you know, I think one would have to agree a child who never gets near, you know,
any great selection of books is being deprived in some way.
Agreed, and yet I think that if you take out the children's libraries and watch children's like,
you're going to be able to work with them like this, yeah.
Oh, yes, that would certainly be true if you use that as a criterion for putting things out.
I mean, it doesn't work the other way.
A book being popular doesn't mean that it's good, but it doesn't mean that it's bad either.
And to hear some of the elitist critics talk, you would think that it did.
You would, and you know, that strongly suggested by Henry James' attitude in that essay,
The Future of the Novel, you know, he seemed absolutely dismayed that the novel was galloping so in popularity.
He thought that simply being popular would reduce its chances of being art.
Now, we don't call that, obviously.
Oh, I think that there's nothing attaching to the form, you know, of pictures with balloons and so on,
that makes it good, bad or indifferent.
I believe we have exactly the same potentiality for being good, bad and indifferent comics
as poorly text books have of being good, bad and indifferent.
Who? Dr. Rose?
Oh, I see, yeah.
You read that?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I think that, oh, a lot of the funny things that people say when they're talking about
children's books and children's reading have arisen out of the circumstances that I've been talking about.
That is, they've been forced into an almost indefensible position.
That, and the very fact that they feel very proper responsibility may make them all anxious about this or that or the other being good for children.
Would I be right in thinking that in general, Australian writers of children's books are doing better at the
in satisfaction of how before you was not really too happy about how well you were doing that?
They're doing jolly well, as you're probably thinking of the fact that I, for example, won the Carnegie Prize last year.
The peculiar situation with children's books is that it is so very international.
The translation activity, for instance, in children's books is much, much higher than it is in adult novels of any kind.
And it's quite interesting to speculate about that.
I'm not quite sure why it comes about.
It may be because there's no children's books aren't likely to be offensive in any way at all.
I don't really know, but in fact children's books travel.
And of course the well-meaning people who promote children's books are also in favour of other general good ideas like international understanding.
So they want kids to read books about how children live in other countries and things like this.
All those sorts of factors might contribute.
I see Tolkien just recently translated as French, the one prize last year, the best quality of children's literature.
Do you think in Toghane, you know the reason in a children's book?
Well, I actually don't like the whole definition of a genre.
I think somebody in the panel before was wondering what we might gain from going for breaking down the boundaries,
breaking down the notion that we have a specific genre.
I'm very much in favour of that as far as children's books are concerned.
I was just thinking you're not only talking about the city of the town, the village, the ends of the carapace,
the city of the kids, the town of the recommended by adults and children.
Oh, I see.
I think I was really...
No, quite.
And you see this withholding from children of horrific material, I think,
because only produced of massive underground in horrific material.
You know that...
Listen to children's playground rhymes.
You wouldn't get anything more horrific than some of them.
You were making about the professional librarians setting themselves up to form the public taste
and to form the taste of the children.
And it could go too far, but I think there are some dangers in seeking to do this.
I know you can't go completely in the other direction and allow the level of taste to find itself.
And as professionals, just follow the popular trend,
to start to be about the children's book of general.
I think that this is virtually the reason for the existence of the fandom such as ours
in the... I've noticed that in over a decade of contact with a certain fandom
that there is a continuous tension between those people that read what the literary call
badly written books, which are very popular and which cater to a low level of public taste.
And books which they consider works of high artistic standard
and which the people who enjoy the more popular and badly written stuff find jolly hard to read.
And the fact that the literati discuss amongst themselves become a litis group in fact.
I see.
One thing I've noticed in recent years is that the tendency for the two groups to more or less come together
is the gradual increase in the taste and the gradual appreciation of qualities in the bad books
that the father literati of qualities make them good.
Well, they're in a series.
They're horrible.
In fact, they're just the nonsense.
Yes, of course.
There's obviously a little private dispute in there somewhere, but...
I think that a cult, and I don't mean that as a pejorative word,
is just what you get.
Like, you know, that Tolkien has a massive, sort of fairly private following.
It's just what you get when something is excluded from proper recognition
and people feel that it ought to be talked about.
Sorry.
Be careful.
Yeah.
But I would like to...
I would like such groups not to turn their back on the possibility that what they actually want
is critical recognition for the genre, which once achieved, they can then dissolve themselves.
I mean, at least in a sense you can.
That is, to regard yourself as a pressure group.
You see, although I have started up a special course at Linder's called Children's Literature,
and that amounts to acknowledging that it is separate,
I've done that because it's the only way I could get to teach it in a university at all.
What I hope in time is that I will be able to persuade my colleagues to consider books like Alice in Wonderland
when they're making up 19th century novel courses, you see.
And if that happens, then my course can go away,
because Children's Literature will have its proper place.
And I hope that you would feel the same about science fiction.
I was inspiring right before Children's fiction, or even Children's Science fiction,
and I have to say that it is a children's editor who has done it, rather than a child.
A child, yeah.
I was told when I was in London, I used to get into a school board, and it had too much social content.
Yeah.
And children, simply love it.
I know you've heard the story over and over again.
It was a bit of a children they love.
Yeah.
It was a bit of a children they don't like.
But these are children with too much social content.
That's right, yes.
We all know children aren't interested in politics.
You should examine again the politics of any school.
Yeah, yes, quite.
I think those sorts of stereotypes are very limiting and harmful, you know.
I wanted to speak before, and I don't know if I can hear you.
Um, there we go.
APPLAUSE
Friends like that.
I was very interested in the way we referred to the fact that the fantasy writer doesn't have an outlet like the Science fiction writer,
and turns to children's fantasy.
I also think there's another aspect here that there are some Science fiction writers who write children's books
but choose to write in fantasy when they write for children.
Especially when we're in the children's fiction, she writes our excellent Science fiction.
And speaking of herself as a writer, when I do write for children,
I would really prefer to write in fantasy,
because I want you to strip away the pseudo-philosophical pretensions of Science fiction,
the mind game and all that goes with it, and bring it down to children's fiction.
It's very restrictive.
I see. To try and do Science fiction at a lower level, you think, is not really on.
Because once the ideas have to lose their complexity, they lose their interest.
Yes, quite.
That's why there is love for the Science fiction writer.
I think there are some ideas which are at the same time simple and mind-boggling.
The books that I recommend, and highly The Mouson, His Child,
is very much concerned with the idea of infinity.
It's a beautiful book. Really marvellous.
Do you think we've got a right to counter-jazzing on children's fiction?
I can see maybe that Ed's a stupid name in the first, or you obviously read it.
I like it.
It's more or less just plain plain.
That's what I was talking about today, but I am interested in old books that come out with a puffin on its cover,
or dragon on, you know.
In fact, that's how it happens often.
People submit a manuscript, and to their surprise, to get a letter saying it's been referred to the children's editor.
When the Ocean of Great Books, there were two of them in America which were published just in novels.
That's right.
Which have a toughening print.
That's right, yes. And it's gone the other way too.
There are some, I think there was one prize-winning book, I think by Rue Mcgarden recently,
that appeared as an adult novel in America, and as a children's book in England.
It shows how old.
But it goes the other way too, I'm afraid.
The next time you find out the story, the rather fine time originally children's novels,
and the coming adult novels quite effectively,
that probably weren't children's novels in the first place in front of the judges,
and the complexity of ideas.
Well, they probably were, you see.
It's just a publicly wondrous meeting, how much complexity children enjoy.
I think that's really the safest.
I think I can probably use a hundred items on this.
Yes, yes.
Yes.
Well, I'm using three.
What do you see?
I was going to ask you about talking down.
Would you imagine that somebody who's been writing books for adults,
and consciously tries to write for a child,
probably does what you were suggesting, which is underage,
and the complexity of the content.
Yes, quite so.
I would swear to that.
I actually invite the students in my course,
who are third and fourth year students,
to write stories if they want to, children's stories,
for their assignments.
We have behind us the eminence to hiding,
though I haven't been able to see converting something written originally into adult things,
and talking to children.
He was talking about it.
Well, it sounded very much like putting it down to a little over.
Quite, yes.
I think that the degree of self-consciousness is...
I've found that in thinking of it,
as children's book I found another literature.
That's a sweet story.
I'm not going down.
I'm not necessarily going down.
Might be going across.
Yes, quite.
Because it's easy to, for an established author,
to run a fairly high-minded line, like C.S. Lewis does.
He says,
what happens is you want to write a book, you write it,
and you find that it's come out a children's book.
I think that's a bit rubbishy, actually,
because at least the Narnia books are among the most talking-down books that I know.
I think they're very good, but they're also extremely patronizing.
The children don't mind it.
I have to make a science question, right?
Yes.
I carefully avoided actually drawing any lines
because I wouldn't know how to do it myself.
If there are a lot of better questions, I'm really going to end this here.
Thank you for a very interesting talk with C.S. Lewis.
alone
and organized the extension of this.
Unfortunately, unfortunately the show must go on
and it must remain now contributed to the movement.
So that's worth doing, I'll be the first to think.
I should have written this in my own language.
As is the word.
Commonly experienced by general practitioners in the same age.
Dependent diet, for one.
But, as I've been on the search for this job,
I must find out,
the search will become a disgrace.
And the supernatural vampire,
which you must agree has such little creed,
is quite impossible.
This is a thing of myth and legend.
Grossly distorted by, oh yes, first life, tonight.
Life's a place, watch out.
Now, this is what you might call a traditional vampire.
I'm glad to be.
Thanks for the money you need to.
But I have a focus too.
There you are, typical cave.
Garp, the eye, the teeth.
A definitely nasty piece of work.
But unfortunately the facts have been distorted in time.
But the answer's come clearer with,
you apply a little medical science to the man.
Traditionally vampires spend very evil lives,
commit suicide,
or even then, don't know who took them.
And rise to the dead.
With actual fact, medical science proves slightly otherwise.
Vampirin, obviously a disease.
Transmitted, we nearly know the population.
In fact, we're going to describe its entire process.
The vampire's course of the season begins with a bit of it.
And then the first symptom is had it on the set.
He dies.
And I'm quite certain that place,
when I ask, why doesn't the vampire die
when in fact he apparently rises from the dead beginning?
Now it's as simple as he doesn't die.
Now, actual fact that for the disease,
obviously the metabodyte process is quite severely.
He tends to go into a comatose state,
a deep comatose state sufficient to be called to explain the animation.
The Russians prefer to call such a state anabiosis,
literally without life in the Greek.
Other terms, hyperbiosis, well, I'm alive.
And the one I prefer is cryptobiosis,
hidden life.
Because in fact, while apparently dead, it's alive.
Now, a person in the cryptobiosis state,
what does one do with it?
So you put it on the tomb, or a crypt, or in the grave.
Now the second symptom is had it on set.
Basically, the comatose state is not a permanent one.
The person thinks they wake up.
Now, if a person wakes up from apparently a dead state,
or if they're having a buried,
they're not going to get buried very far.
Unless of course, as the ones who do,
they come from the upper strata of society,
where in fact they're not buried in the ground,
but buried in tombs or crypts.
They find the buried and they get out of here.
So much was blue blood.
Now, the other interesting feature of this disease is
it's not a simple disease.
One would say it's like radiation, as it obviously is.
We're going to see the central nervous system side effect.
Psychotic mania, next slide please.
This is not quite a traditional vampire, but you know,
it's quite a certain thing.
You have psychosis coming from the effects on the nervous system.
The other mechanism is by a rabdo-type virus,
which presumes the car.
Very well presumed to.
It moves into a liver and attacks one of the RNA or DNA cofactors.
Preferably a liver liver cell.
None of that goes for what biochemical in a liver.
You can say anything about it.
So you have these two diseases in the working concert
that produce a single coherent system of symptoms.
Now, a lot of the side effects of amycomnesia
will obviously be central nervous effects,
and quite severe.
Traditionally vampires are quelled by the power of the cross.
Obviously, monsters.
But if you think about it,
I don't think it's central nervous system in value,
so you would get things like intense morbid phobias
of religious symbols.
So, fear of the cross.
Possibly also fear of consecrated grammar.
I believe waiters.
Additionally, as for things like running water,
obviously a bit.
Once of course they're disorientated so severely they can't swim.
Other side effects are quite interesting.
The vampire, because he spends so much time in a microbiotic state,
has his life span extended quite considerably.
So in fact you get the apparent longevity of the vampire.
And the other interesting effects is that the vampire is produced,
is brought into the state of actual hysterical strength.
Hysterical strength is one of the most curious cases
where the attainment of mouse-wives who involved in the pro-accident
and had a child in fact underneath the smarished car
are quite capable of picking up and moving a car
usually with about a tonne.
Normally they end up with a lot of problems before it's in the bloodstream.
But these creatures live in a state of perpetual hysterical strength.
Their metabolic states are greatly enhanced
so they're much more biologically efficient.
And being much more biologically efficient
they become very difficult to kill.
Being at simple wounds is a kill.
Ordinary people are in fact short.
It takes very massive wounds to destroy the vampire.
Therefore, decapitation is staking the heart.
Because the disease is so pernicious,
viruses will last for a long time,
the only way to get rid of a vampire is to consume and pile that fire.
The poor peasant vampires are presumably quite contained
in very few other...
The second and third side please.
This tends to ram the point over a little too hard.
It does produce the effect of massive wounding.
See about the focus of that something.
Vampirism we can now see just simply.
Oh yes, the others are interesting,
but there are three theories about why they're quite rare.
One is the co-effect of fear generation.
Which is very nice because it explains why it's taking the war
taking it to the mountain.
The situation is that what happens when blood is in some particular
because if somebody enzymes the package of axes
then the blood is simply congealed.
So why do they need blood?
The co-effect is a super molecule easily taken in the elementary canal.
The other one is the hemolytic acid.
This one assumes that the blood can be cut out of the elementary canal.
One is to inject it all over the form of a tube tube.
The third one is the cyclone to the game.
Blood has got so many coronations in life.
The person who finds the periodicity dies.
He obviously needs more life.
So how do they go out and draw blood?
The adaptions of being a vampire are quite severe.
Many people can't stand this training.
Riding with him occasionally can stand currently and then take his blood.
The ones in the base of that can survive longer.
Also, the simple adaptions survive close to two to one.
This is the director, regional anti-vampire control.
For night and blue enforcement activities,
attack and destroy the vampire now.
The volume of the clock is very high.
A modern man might be the most likely antelope to survive this disease.
So if you wait...
So much for psychology.
Where does that rest all at?
Strike, but remember, only a massively destructive room can destroy a vampire.
Stay and then watch out for the demonic spirit of the vampire.
The next slide please.
This is where we really go to ground.
Next slide please.
This is moving up the date.
Next slide.
Protections and things to come.
Obviously, the human future lies in space.
Mrs. Evian, next slide please.
With focus, slide please.
This is moving right along.
Polo type module.
Next please.
You've got to bang through all these clothes quickly.
Just keep banging away.
Oh, I love that.
Ah, the good old moon.
A nice dead wall.
Very little activity going on.
A few odd things about it though.
A nice wall.
A little different.
Change of scenery.
This is what we hope to be doing.
Look, feel like a trailer.
Continue.
Now, this is moving out a little further.
Some new real estate.
I think it's a cool projection.
Next slide, project theme, of course.
American stuff, NASA.
A couple of blokes of Mars.
Please continue.
Same again, going down.
Actually, that's a Viking.
I think the Moon Machine, I take it.
Ah, well, keep flicking it, please.
Abstract out as one or not.
This, of course, is Phobos, the moon,
the planet is Mars.
Interesting planet.
Very low pressure.
Lots and lots of dust.
A lot of the weather is controlled by energy
getting into that dust.
That's why it rises.
Jaws heat energy, just about the place.
Continue.
Up next.
Any old common old garden asteroid
being visited by Earthlings.
Continue.
Ah, yes.
Venus.
Very good if we'd done this one.
Not quite as it would look, but
optically that is.
This would probably be completely blacked out.
One more thing, pointy thing, like finger.
Lightning, if you assume this was taken in infrared.
This has got a surface temperature around 1,000 degrees.
We have 700 degrees cold.
That would be about 450 degrees, say,
centigrade.
Quite warm.
Atmospheric pressure.
I had a guess, it was about 60 atmospheres.
A lot of difficulties.
A YET classified as
a pyrolysis, which means hot and deep.
Boys are hot and boys are deep.
Atmospheres would be like plastic
or interesting stuff.
Optically, it would be quite wild.
Because of any light
would be quite some peculiar angles.
In fact,
it's important you go and see.
But if you imagine a surface of a spear,
like a ball, and a light ray coming down,
instead of going straight down to the surface
as would a normal light,
and a light ray in an atmosphere like ours,
it would be quite severely instead of landing
at the point where it came straight in at,
it would land somewhere on the other side.
It would go out
and land on that side.
If anything, we're living in a planet like that,
it would have to use a sonar type system,
as would things like dolphins,
oceanic creatures.
Continue, please.
That was going to come first.
That's Venus orbit.
Please continue.
Jupiter.
Continue.
Let's have the solar system sat in.
This one came out beautifully.
How does this one look?
Yeah, it is, isn't it?
Okay, hang on.
Saturn again, on Titan.
Setting our size of week chart is absolutely beautiful.
Maybe we can't put it on my projection,
but not too high.
Saturn again, that looks better.
Nice stuff. Continue.
Seventh plane of the solar system.
This planet has had a bad deal from science fiction.
Now I know, great science fiction stories are out here on Uranus.
Continue.
But Neptune's had a better deal.
It's mentioned in a couple.
Actually, that's why Uranus is a better deal.
It's got about five moons.
All got beautiful Latin names.
Whereas,
Neptune's got two, Triton and Neread.
Continue.
This is where we get out into the world.
That is the truth.
Stars, continue.
Just hammer away.
This is where science fiction is going to go.
Oh no.
That is North America, would you believe?
No.
I shall demonstrate if I had a long point of things.
I don't.
Oh, you!
What do you believe is the goal for Mexico?
If you could say.
No.
I don't.
Down to the river, you have to worry.
Continue, please.
Some of these are incredibly beautiful.
The focus is, that's the horse head nebula.
A horse head.
Continue.
Andromeda, of course.
Anyone can recognize the andromeda glance.
It's only one and a half million light years away.
So it's a long walk.
This is called the Dumbbell Nebula in Valpeca.
Dumbbells.
Continue.
That is the crap nebula.
Absolutely swishable piece of work.
It keeps a lot of boffins busy because there's got all sorts of nice things going on in there.
Lots of hot gas.
A pulsar in here which is probably a neutron star.
Having written an essay on it earlier this year, I should know.
These are stars.
Square things. Continue.
Another galaxy.
Very sweet. Continue.
Continue.
I would say smudgy stuff.
That'd be...
That's a nebula.
Continue.
Nebula's gas. Gas is bodies filled with...
This is called the Rosetta Nebula in Monoceros.
It's an absolutely beautiful figure.
It was in focus.
It's really swishable.
Continue, please.
Another typical nebula.
You might find anywhere in the universe.
Ah, what a great...
Now this is the Pliadix.
It's the same system.
Which if you get a clear enough night you can see 21.
These are blue stars.
They're quite hot.
They've only got a lot of expectancy to a mere few million years.
They'll blow out beautifully in the night but quite soon.
If you hang around long enough you can see them go.
Right.
That's also incredibly beautiful in focus.
Another typical galaxy.
Galaxies are quite interesting.
It looks very much like you to have in life anywhere in the universe.
You have to have galaxies.
So if you move to another universe somewhere
and it hasn't got galaxies,
your chance of finding any life there are pretty miserable.
Especially intelligent life.
There's a beautiful paper.
Scientific paper, mind you.
Quite technical.
Approves the universe like what we see
because we happen to be here.
Because we live in a universe that's got galaxies
and it's isotopically distributed.
It means they're having to be intelligent beings.
Hens are two different things.
There's a different universe who can look out and say
huh, why are we here?
And the answer is because we're in a universe
that's us,
comically distributed and it's got galaxies.
That's the answer kids.
And I published a paper out of it too.
Bloody.
Anyway, continue please.
This is a nice quick trip.
Oh, right.
I mean, yes.
That's something which I can't remember.
Too many slides.
Continue please.
Ah, now we're really rooting them right along.
This is a man going on long slides.
Oh.
Would you believe it?
Continue.
A bopstar.
Actually, this is I think,
literally, 20 interesting ones.
A blue, white,
dwarf star and a large, red giant.
None of the theoretical reasons are known.
Well, sure system line.
Very funny.
That one is either Zeta Algyri
or Zeta Kansai.
It's Algyri, remember?
Continue.
This is a swish.
This is a hypothetical planet
that is around a star
that has gone nova.
And in fact, the bright bit is the nova
and the black chunk of red stuff
is the planetary nebula formant.
This planet would be hypothetically
about the position of that planet
Pluto, the solar system.
Continue.
Now this of course is beta-wire
relying on the side.
The slides were dropped earlier in the evening
and a great chunk of them have been missing.
And it's been a bit difficult
to put them all together again in a hurry.
Beta-wire is a nice binary star.
It's sufficiently close
for there to be an exchange of gases
between the two stars.
And because this tends to spin out,
you have to spin because they're turning
on one another and you get
this spiral coming out.
It must be a really fabulous sight.
But here's present theory
so there's not much chance of them in planets
but then again,
we might not be able to present theories yet.
Continue.
Now this is data cancerite.
Obviously,
a rather miserable place.
Continue.
Ah, that's well over.
That's Mercury lying on the side.
That is a Mercury in mountain.
That is a solar sun.
And that is a Mercury in plane.
Continue.
Ah, yes.
Now this one is interesting
because this is one of your common
or gone hypothetical planets
going around out for Centauri.
This one is a real pity about the focus
because very fascinatingly,
there is a constellation up here.
That constellation,
which we see in our skies
and called Cassiopeia.
In fact,
on the planet going around out for Centauri,
the stars would be very much as we see them
in the constellations.
Except in this case,
there is a seventh star
to our sun.
People suggested that this constellation
as seen from
Centauri planets should be called the switch-flate.
Actually, Stephen Dole called that.
Must check away when he called that.
Probably Vicious America, which he is.
Vicious but he is American.
Continue.
Get even more viewers if you go along.
Yes.
Here is one of your common or gone.
Planets with intelligent life.
It is not one of ours.
Because of Britt's paint in this damn thing,
you have got a Jotrelbank-type telescope
and you have an alien spacecraft taking off.
Actually, there is an alien city in things down here too.
Ha-ha, of course.
A PMG tower,
GPO-type tower, London.
Hmm.
How much imagination is in this game?
Continue.
Ah, now we can get on very seriously all night.
That is a sort of primordial depiction
of extraterrestrial life.
And then you may have a perspective.
Looks beautiful.
Ah, that looks obviously focused.
That is like a galaxy as seen from a planet.
Going from a star along with a whole new galaxy.
As one can guess.
You have your great, ready-to-go galaxy here
and these things here are the other stars.
Perhaps one would say a globular cluster
moving outside a galaxy.
Of course, there is a pretty high velocity star.
This means they travel a couple of hundred kilometers per second
that are moving out of the galaxy
so they might have moved out an evolved life.
Continue.
Now, this is getting really alien and alien life.
This is a planet where there is great masses of carbon tetraploid.
That is a glob of carbon tetraploid going up or an alien.
There is more glob of carbon tetraploid than alien.
A moon of some description.
And of course, obviously, as you all guessed by now,
this is a star inside probably a globular cluster like that.
Inside globular cluster, stars are sufficiently close to be
within life months of one another.
Which means that if there are any civilizations out there,
they would have a great chance to get around
and form galactic empires.
Because it would be quite easy to build interstellar space systems
that can get out there.
It will start as only a few light months away as opposed to light years.
The only trouble is, the good guesses are globular clusters are old,
which means they didn't have the heavy elements that we've got.
That's to say, elements heavy in iron, uranium, cobalt, nickel.
They probably couldn't form a machine civilization since we could.
But they might struggle along with plastics
and there is a lot of things you can do with biology.
You can build rockets to go along.
Yes, I wouldn't...
If you can guess this one, you could go off with not so much a bang,
but a... other musiating sound.
Continue!
Ah yes, more extraterrestrial life.
I guess.
The next one, please.
Oh, wrong one.
These are typical pieces of extraterrestrial life.
One of your typical Niven puppeteers.
Puppeteers, they are interesting.
I thought they seemed to be quite acceptable for the Valiant life,
except there are some nasty things about them from a biological point of view.
I mean, apart from the fact that you've got these eyes on the end of these...
The idea of a mouth as an organ manipulation is very good.
I must grant Nivens showing the incredible, the good originality in doing that.
The three legs are a real foul up, though.
There are other problems involved.
Basically, reproduction.
Niven is very coy about the reproduction of puppeteers.
And if you're trying to work out how they do it,
it's no wonder he's so coy about it.
He implies that they are females of the species and are non-sentient.
Actually, I wonder about that, Niven,
because the kizindi, or zindi, as one might say,
presumably is supposed to pronounce the K,
but unfortunately, because he's used a letter like K,
which is silenced in a lot of uses, I tend to suppress his K.
So I say zindi.
Actually, there is a CZ sound in some of European languages,
which would be pronounced chun, which would be pronounced chinti,
or a few accent dachsh, and for that, ha!
It becomes kitty.
So much for Larry Niven.
He's going to rip some great chunks out of him later on.
But anyway, as I said, ah yes, non-sentient.
Because obviously the brain must get in the way,
if you've got to have a womb in there somewhere,
so they've got to be non-sentient.
Anyway, non-sentient female sex, that sounds suspicious to me.
Obviously, a hang-up somewhere.
Continue.
This is where they go off.
Praise yourselves, folks.
Get out of the way, will you?
Now you can go on your slides for a minute.
Next slide, please.
You're kidding, of course.
Now I'll ask you to go on your slides.
This is to give you some irritation, here's a mammal.
You're, of course, niggering it for the wrong reasons,
because biologically speaking, mammals aren't all equipped with these.
Well, gentlemen, try to look down their vests and check on them.
In actual fact, mammals aren't mammals,
not because they've got boobs, but because they've got hair.
See?
Well, it's a mammal.
We can't see that slide, actually.
Now, interestingly enough, there's no biological reason
why you couldn't have a species, in fact,
where the males didn't have mammary glands.
And in fact, looking at what happens at the pre-cellular level,
where you can, in fact, do some interesting evolutionary experimental work
on raw biochemical, which has been done,
I mean, this is the first time you're going to hear it, folks.
I mean, you know, John Foistler said last night on television
that science fiction was only 30 years behind science,
while I'm going to catch up.
One could have mammary males.
Continue, please.
Thanks for the memory.
This is one of your other biologically interesting things.
The ancients in their way tended to mug up these creatures
like the oranthrops, so I can say normal, all the oranthrops,
in other words, a bird man, a man with wings who flies.
Very unsound, unstable.
We can also do a sorts of thing too.
Ah, yes, spinny and flurries.
It was once pointed out to me that in the Edgar Wright horror story,
the Martians must all be reptiles,
when they were reproduced by eggs.
Therefore, there's no need for these birds to have boobs.
So, all those busty birds of boob and parra-soob.
Or they're half.
In fact, they're a fake.
Oh, my God.
Edgar Wright's borrows his imagination was working overtime
for the wrong reasons.
Continue.
Now, this is beautiful.
Now, everyone knows that science fiction
writes its own science fiction.
Why do they not realise that science writes its own science fiction too?
Now, this is what one would call a common old garden.
This is your photon-rotation-rotation-rotation principle
that you have a really great type of light down here somewhere,
and you square out lots of light,
and it moves forward in the opposite direction.
A typically spied idea.
Next slide, please.
A technical diagram of a photon-rotation,
which the numbers haven't come out yet.
Now, this.
Oh, bloody hell.
This is a reflective dish.
Engines.
Oh, bugger, I was saying.
There's a little chuck-a-rocket.
A life support unit up there somewhere,
and a long thin thing for supporting it all.
Now, the photon-rotation-rotation is a nice idea.
Anyone can look at the calculations,
and they can show you that a photon-rotation-rotation
will get very close to the velocity of light.
Therefore, it won't be taken advantage of all the little ballistic effects,
like time dilation.
The fact that the rocket gets shorter,
actually, that's why, because it means you can invent problems
for physics students which say,
how can you get a battleship through a pair of barn doors?
It doesn't move fast enough,
and it shrinks down, and it takes through the barn doors.
This is going to be exciting for all of you.
You must admit, there's some beautiful realistic problems.
There's one published in the Australian,
in which some guy worked out as follows.
Cinderella goes to the ball on the far side,
which, of course, is only a light hour away from the Earth.
Midnight, she's got to leave the ball,
so she takes off fast.
In a non-accelerating rocket,
the acceleration power of the cat-guy can go in.
But troubles back to the Earth.
Now, the thing that does,
Cinderella's made it back in time before the witching hour on Earth,
her time, they say,
was she turned into a pumpkin.
First, she turned into a pumpkin.
Second, she had to squiggle.
She said, it's much better as a pumpkin.
Next slide, please.
Oh, no. Great.
This is an absolutely beautiful slide,
which is on a photon rocket
that has come to
has arrived in a planetary system
that is a mere 30 light years away
from the Trippin nebula,
which has always colored stuff down here.
An absolutely beautiful piece of nebula,
it's an absolutely beautiful piece of work.
I'll give a plug for the boxers' camera on too.
Up.
Continue, please. I'm shouting about that.
Ha ha ha!
Hold it right there.
That's a good stuff.
Right.
It comes in a single quantum mechanics.
And you can do a lot of things with this quantum mechanics,
but I'm teaching it in a visible physics degree.
Who's here too?
Yes.
Okay, you have this.
Anyway, here you can read the writing, you know,
but according to the geometry ideas it weighs,
because this establishment then,
that's the state that can go through walls
bigger than four inches,
or 0.1 meter.
That's
there is objects whose associated weight
functions decreased to about 1.
2.7
of their full amplitude,
at about 1,
about a tenth of a meter from the boundary.
No, that's not true.
It's too big or something like that.
And this establishes them quite easily,
because you work out what the mass of a ghost is.
And it goes up to
about
10 to the
minus 16 for an electron.
And that's about a mass
of about 10 to the minus 40 kilogram.
They're quite light.
Now, the ghost will have got this.
What happens?
Any ghost that comes out of dead body,
as they want to do,
is quite easily accelerated.
In fact, the energy to accelerate a ghost
to escape from oxygen,
in finally,
10 to the minus 38 joules.
In fact, any part of the breath will accelerate a ghost
clean off the earth.
In fact, even the sunlight will squeeze a ghost off the earth.
So the only ghost we'll ever do,
are in fact the ghost that's trapped inside old buildings,
dungeon,
gets down to speed,
or get caught up in chains.
And they're stuffed.
Now, ghost trapped in this unfortunate manner,
are forced to remain,
because after they've got caught up in the open air from oxygen,
they soon become a kind of
rotative effect.
And it makes an increase.
It makes the magic ring get out.
It's got all that
so in fact,
if you want to lay a ghost inside,
what you're going to do is calm down.
It's not like I'm in an armor place,
you know.
Think about it, Mark.
You've made some good of it.
You need to like share it with them.
This is the gym, Mark.
This is the gym.
There's some nice side effects in this,
which I can't go all the way through, unfortunately.
But in actual fact,
you'll remember what Peter Donahue said about
red-roof ghosts inside.
In fact, this area does it quite nicely.
Because ghosts are wandering around the place,
oh yeah, you can all sorts of interesting things.
About the real infection,
the vision of the surface of ghosts.
Must be less than any percent,
or it might never be seen at all.
So ghosts can only be seen
under the movement of a core elimination.
The human's trying to float down,
and the water's out there, and you can push them to give the water.
I got to hang up.
I assume you can,
but it will be more soon.
Also more than a month.
You said plenty here in Europe.
The other little things about this
that they give is scattered radiation.
And because ghosts obviously
are parking in a great void out there,
the interesting effect is
the scattering of shot-grain radiation
by ghosts in flight to the universe
would, well, therefore,
be a major source of cosmic radiation.
I don't think so far
why I strongly should explain this to you,
but unfortunately,
they've been too little accounted for some reason.
Also, obviously,
the absolute temperature
of our space is up.
3 degrees Celsius at stand 12.
And 3 is mostly except for the room.
And just to talk about it now,
it's possible the reason ghosts are cold
is because there's something
that's in the space now.
The air is quite, obviously, door is great.
It's true.
If this is called a deadly set thing,
that was a ghost that actually cooled up the light,
you know, the last thing I mentioned
was that down at the end of the atmosphere,
and it's like, oh, I'm going to do it one time.
Yes, it's rather like that thing.
That record goes up to say that ghosts only walks.
When it's not over here,
that doesn't mean
when it's down, you're in Australia.
It goes up.
It's got a fantastic timing, I tell you.
But even so,
ghosts are, I guess,
there's some really, there's some really good stuff about ghosts.
But because they're properties,
it's possible that some
they have certain figures.
In other words, there are six differences
on my imagination.
But you can be ghosts.
It's up to you.
And this would be the asymmetric way
it functions, correct?
Let me die of statistics.
Particles of various statistics would come up
in some schools.
And the other ones, the states,
would be one in which ghosts are often spin,
would be pinnaged up to what you find
in the energy sector,
which can be of no use.
This is a highly satisfactory disposition.
Why do you do it with physicists?
Why would my world be
in this multitude of state and place
and all the others hope you achieve?
See, there's hope here.
You're in an afterlife.
Now, I think we've got to go on.
This is sort of where I'm on.
My sleep's on the paper.
Ah, yes, there's more slide.
It's locked out.
I want a slide.
Ah, yes.
This is where we've got the extra dress to stay to be going
to extra dress to your technology.
The stuff which you can build if you've got the brains
to boot from the time you're doing it.
Ah, yes.
This would be a typical monolith
in orbit over a moon.
What can't a moon be done?
Heaven knows what a monolith does.
They didn't bother to explain it.
It's made for a lovely spot.
Continue.
Aha, a ring world with a pair of dirty digits.
I know those dirty digits they are,
but not to worry about.
I wouldn't talk too much.
Now, the Niven's ring, of course,
was a beautiful thing.
I mean, it makes a lovely painting good stuff.
But unfortunately,
it's a lousy concept.
I mean, okay,
how do you build a ring?
One thinks to oneself.
One could, you know,
actually build tidal effects.
Tidal effects are sort of easy to imagine.
You just simply take a can of water,
roll it on a bit of string,
and see if you can make it go rigid.
In fact, the ring like that
has to do things like
staying rigid.
The tidal effects are quite miserable.
Putting it all together is horrible.
Text light please.
This is a better idea.
So, Bruce and he is always best.
Freeman Dyson's original idea was
see Dyson decided to basically
sneak into it and come think about it.
If you want to reason out a problem,
you do it in a nice, simple fashion.
And he said, right,
if there exists very large technologies
in the universe,
what are they like on the moon?
What can they handle?
He talked about in terms of imagining simple ideas.
So he just simply said, right,
let's take the mass of Jupiter.
You can know what the mass of Jupiter is.
And you take the output of the energy from the sun.
And for most figures, you can work out something like
Dyson's speed.
He definitely didn't say, haha, he's got the Dyson's speed.
He said, aha, and wrote it up in science.
And got published.
It's fine. Actually, Dyson's an interesting quote.
It's a digress.
He's only got a PhD.
In order to read, no one is degree at all.
He's a proper Princeton.
He's an advanced institute.
You know, an institute of advanced studies.
He must be a damn bright bugger.
Anyway, to continue with the Dyson group,
what he did was he just simply considered
if you smeared out all the mass of Jupiter
into a thin sphere.
The sphere was wrong. It was actually a thin shell.
About two meters thick.
Between the two, he said,
I'm not going to put your speed on one side
and bang your head on the other.
How funny do you think it is?
But,
when people wrote in and said, aha,
you build a thing like this around the stone
with four parts, because of tidal effects,
he said, aha, of course you're right.
So what he said is you have a lot of these things floating
around the place like this, which is a ruddy-voked cylinder,
no less.
And if you say that this cylinder is about a mile in diameter,
and say 10 miles long, which allows the sense of scale,
if you say it's 10 miles long and about 20 miles long,
you're probably better off.
A thing like that, you can fill up no in.
You know, it's just diabolically easy.
Just put it on layers.
Now, let's see, what is the area of a thing like that?
It's obviously about something like 2 pi r by L long.
That's a good surface area to do.
Well, let's say, what's that work?
It's about 10 miles in diameter.
It's about 5 miles.
That's about, um,
that's 30, and it's about 20 miles.
That's 600.
600 square miles on one level.
And if you move the levels in,
you admittedly lose your surface area,
but you gain a lot.
If you've thought about spinning an object like this,
so that the outer layer,
uh,
with centrifugal force, which would throw you out
because it's spinning around,
you had an internal force
of one gravity.
As you work in the center,
you have lesser gravities,
and when you're in fact in store,
what's the machinery?
Uh, things like park lanes,
for example, if you wanted to build one inside.
It would be damn interesting to have a park,
you know, like a great open park,
like a forest built artificially,
inside a cylinder,
where in fact you had conditions of 10 gravities.
I mean, models, you effectively fly through trees.
That's what I've idea of, though.
I like it.
Continue.
Stop!
Later away.
Keep your colours.
More powerful than automotive.
More buildings than a single...
What a man!
Yes, it's Superman!
Rain-stained from another planet who came to earth
with powers and abilities.
Ah!
Who could change the force of white rivers,
and steal in his bare hands,
and who disguised as Clark Kent
Miles Manage reporter for a great man's
of violence at Newstay first,
fights a never-ending battle for truth,
justice, and the American world.
You're going to have to have an action ready for that.
You all want to know how Superman works?
I'm going to tell you.
He works fully on out, I think.
He's going to describe what Superman does,
and I know he would definitely want to know
how Superman works.
What do you think we'll do anyway?
You can brag about it.
He's going to break down exactly what he does
and work out how he has to do it.
Right!
He can ban the steal of violence and he can steal anything.
He can set an app, set a business, and make full-fledged
a single ban. He can work out how to make
multiple-mode money.
He can look like a typical figure for a work of money,
which I have involved in the do.
He can probably help you find a typical work of money figure.
Money, things.
God, it's not one of those people who just
like war.
It's just a fun thing to be found out.
Right!
Now,
I said I'll take pictures out of Mary Hill and I will.
Mary Hill and I have a very cool thing about
Superman.
He called it Man in the Spirit, War on the Cleaning.
Fishy.
Ah, Fishy and then.
That's got it.
Right, his marketing hypothesis was
that Superman is too strong, too powerful.
He would tend to rip a female apart
if he was copulating with it.
He would ejaculate at loose, transonic
velocities and punch holes in it.
That's what I'm saying.
Superhuman power being more powerful
in local roads would tear a way through
a delicate body and leave a perpetrator to the city.
But you'd then undergo
um,
sepsis and dying quite horrible.
And in fact, if those guys were little
superhuman sperms could in fact get round
and fertilize them on the snuffle of the good times.
He was human.
I mean, the sperms, the life-threatening, he was fertilizing human hate.
And um,
John H. Redwood.
I think I'm not going to throw up.
I'm not going to throw up.
Now,
in beauty and in fact, the main
is stupid and it's um, it's humanoid.
I mean, you've noticed the human point.
Okay, Rose!
Give it back!
That's the kind of people that
they're more powerful
than a locomotive.
They're able to leave
tall buildings
in a single bound.
Look, I'm a guy. It's a bird.
It's a pig! It's Superman!
Yes, it's Superman.
A strange visitor from another planet who came to Earth
with powers and abilities far beyond
those of mortal men.
Superman,
who can change the course of mighty rivers,
then steal in his bare hands.
And who disguised as Clark Kent,
mild-mannered reporter for
a great man to follow the newspaper,
fights a never-ending battle for truth,
justice, and the American...
Oh, I don't know.
Now, but he's killing me.
Look, I don't know.
He says all the maximums are cut in half.
Cut on maximums is a lot more.
I don't know.
That's like when those dark-hats
turned to the now-called
human-dark-hats.
Yeah, human-dark-hats are very good.
Now, in dark-hats,
those who saw the program
Mr. Terrific, this is about
a puny, full-retreat, few players, filled.
And for one hour, he had the strength of a thousand men.
Great stuff.
Now, if you'd care to sit down and work out a power,
but the realest weight
of a man who had the strength of a thousand men
on the train, and now he's in the plunge,
he's like, well, put him in.
A thousand times, come on, you're all in here.
What?
You're working on every weight of a man.
And you multiply the firm-stone,
you divide it by a thousand.
And you weigh the current weight of the ounce
of an ounce and a half.
So, give that an ounce and a half.
So, right, let's give it
the basic unit that we're going to work on.
An empty unit, Mr. Terrific unit.
One.
Cut off with a thousand men.
So, obviously, how about two men?
Show us how to do it, will you?
I'll give you a little more power.
Now, let's take the right back to black.
Black dwarf stars.
Oh, I didn't want to give them.
That's black dwarf planets.
Now, we're taking you to really a neutron star.
A typical neutron star is being taken
massive as sun, and you can press it down
to the sun's here.
It's about that size.
It's very massive.
Now, what's the massive sun you've made here?
Look at both gas models.
You can put a back for that.
And it's in sun.
You've got 333,500 times the mass in the air.
Therefore, a neutron, you can worry,
neutron planets, that's a safe.
A neutron star is the whole far enough.
We like a planet.
You know, cool north and quiet down a bit.
There's a planet.
We like a planet, not a star anymore.
You've got to set this back to the sun.
We've got about three.
Twenty-five minutes.
And thirty-five thousand times
the mass in the air.
Press light, please.
Killers watch, Mr. Black.
Let's turn the model over.
That's the first one.
Back to the first, the other one.
It shouldn't be in that place. Back to the other one, then.
This one, yes.
Superman.
Okay.
So, take the slide after this one.
Not the one before it.
Yes.
No, no, no.
I'm sorry. Get on, please.
Superman in Australia.
I'm sorry.
You know, in the column,
see, when I read the sort of stuff,
they never bothered to rationalize
how Superman works.
Which was neat, because you could sort of...
So, right, no way of knowing.
It comes from Krypton.
He's got all these superpowers, and that's it.
If they got the work and they said,
I would need the work, you know.
They said Krypton's got a red sun,
therefore the Kryptonians don't have superpowers
and things like that.
And he's got to be activated by yellow suns
You know, it's not really a nonsense.
I mean, Kryptonite has Kryptonite work.
It looks like a radioactive element, but they've no...
Kryptonite is a universe, I mean.
It's nothing like that.
But we shall plan on.
Put that slide out.
Turn that slide down, please.
There's some good view of it.
It won't be in the future.
Right.
Their explanation for his suit,
we hear, was that it comes from a heavier planet.
We established it comes from a planet
which we can say has got 300,000 pounds more gravity.
See, it can't be a planet.
It's nonsense.
I mean, Jupiter's only got a surface gravity
of about 4G or something.
I mean, you know, 4 times stronger,
you know, great stuff, back, back.
If that's not being in steel bars and you're being...
I think...
Strong bits of wire, yes, it must be better.
Right.
But suns, obviously, nonsense.
Nonsense. We'll come to that.
Funny things.
Yes, right.
So, it's very...
If it comes from a planet that's 300,000 times
more massive as the surface gravity
300,000 times out of the Earth,
it has to be stronger.
Not only do we have to be stronger, it has to be made tougher.
Because otherwise, it would be on Krypton,
and it would be tripled over in the flattened,
you know, very thin paste.
All over the planet, sir.
In actual fact, you can work out that
on a neutron star, if you drop
something, you know,
something like a small coin,
in fact, it will liberate about as much energy
as you can have a small nuclear weapon.
But I think that makes
a certain assumption, which I haven't had a chance to go over.
I think that he can trip over
on Krypton and survive,
which means he can survive very powerful explosions,
and bullets, and all sorts of things.
Super-Sweeper comes easy,
because he falls 300,000 times faster.
That means bloody fast reflexes.
Between the entire surface system.
He's speeded up.
In fact, he would make 300,000 times
faster than ordinary men.
And if he had a nervous system comparable to ours,
he'd be smarter, because he can think
longer and faster.
That means if he takes an hour to solve a problem,
he'll take a human being 300,000 man-hours
to think about it.
X-ray vision.
This one's almost easy, actually,
because the optical tunnel affects the laser.
So, actually, he's not looking at X-rays.
His eyes are working like lasers.
Now, if it's quite possible to think
that he lives on a neutron star, we'll always grab it.
Optical effects become quite weird.
So, it would be quite natural
for the inhabitants to develop
eyes that would, in fact, be able to project.
Work like a laser. Why not?
I mean, it's there physically.
I mean, the biology must take advantage of it somewhere.
And let's see what happens.
One of these other super-pads, flight.
Now, flight is a funny thing,
but we can get around that quite instantly.
Now, all these big biological systems
create this like
men, animals, and dogs,
and zebras and monkeys.
This is the damn whatever they are.
Biological evolution has to go on.
I've got to go on in a gravitational field
that is 300,000 times stronger than us.
Matter doesn't behave like that,
unless you invent something rather swan.
And so, I invented a decay effect.
I told the decay effect because I was too much
to call it the jacarous effect.
Anyway, that's a decay effect.
A decay effect is one of the hypothetical effects
which means that
it stores up lots and lots of energy
and it overcomes effects
on very strong gravitational fields.
So, matter can behave as if it were not
in a strong gravitational field.
Immediately.
The planet can evolve.
You can have ordinary biological evolution
and by converting evolution you can get humanoid.
Kryptonian, in other words.
So, krypton exploded.
Bang.
Newtron starts, we don't know what exploded,
it exploded, but you might get the occasional
odd, straight, interesting element, like kryptonite.
With a decay effect.
Now, with the decay effect,
we have a lot of interesting things to consider.
Now, this means that Superman has got stored up in himself.
Oh, for what? Energy.
And this energy is quite simple.
It means, in fact,
that by him to survive on the Earth.
I mean, he can...
I mean, the point of fact, an ordinary man
can leap quite readily into the Earth
at a velocity of 1 meter per second.
He can leap into the Earth
at a velocity of about 300 kilometers per second.
Actually, it's 333.
But, this means
it's about 30 times faster than
he expected to watch him live the Earth.
Which means he can hop around the planetary system quite happily.
Which means he can really travel,
but he's not really moving yet.
With a cave field, you can do all the interesting stuff.
A cave field would be a perfect safe gap
for whatever he does.
Now, the cave field, obviously, must be a response modulated.
Which means that whatever runs up
runs up in use, it modulates to overcome.
Which means, in fact,
he doesn't rip doors off a panel
unless he needs to.
It's when he leans on things,
the response comes back.
But then, to be rather new.
This means he is virtually perfectly elastic.
Elastic in the true physical sense.
A claimant goes back to its original shape.
Plastic means you take something,
you deform it, and it remains conformed.
Whereas elastic means it's in a certain state, shape.
When you bash it, bang it, or jump on it,
it returns to that original state.
Perfectly elastic is invulnerable.
Right, so we've got him invulnerable now.
In fact, he can be just
merely invulnerable, and appear to have super strength.
Because, you know, if he picks a car up
and he's hit, aha, it's up there.
And the car is saying, ah, you should be crushed to death.
But the old cave effect is working way same.
Right, if we keep pumping in the energy
and keeping him in the same state,
he would appear to be super strong.
Because, in fact, all it's doing is he remains in the same state.
The car can't fall, because it gets in the way.
And the cave field keeps pumping in the energy
and keeping him in the same state.
Uninterested speculation.
But, yes.
Now, once we've got the cave effect there,
the cave field,
well, one, the effect, so we associate a field with it,
and get away and explain it.
There's actually a thing called Wattless Power,
which one finds about.
What was powered interesting?
It means you can pump energy in your system,
and the Wattless Power doesn't do anything.
It just sort of vanishes.
You can take it out again,
as though it's there.
So, in fact, the cave effect works like Wattless Power.
And, well, I'll take you to the science of what was power,
which I won't go into,
because they tend to get rather confusing.
But, effectively, with a cave field,
and the associate cave effect,
you can do most of the things.
But, obviously, cave fields must have other side effects.
And this is where kryptonite comes in.
It's obviously affected by radiation.
Now, here it comes in contact with the kryptonite radiation.
It obviously does something that is cave field.
It obviously draws energy back in the wrong direction.
What do you do?
We're getting somewhere.
Very good tonight.
Probably something to start with.
Radiation obviously interferes with something.
Now, a cave field must store information.
It must also say,
we're like Superman, so big, so tall, so such, such.
Right.
Now, this radiation seeps in,
and it mucks up the information.
So, right, Superman is 254.
254.
You've got to know that.
Bang, it's in common.
Right, that's red kryptonite.
That's the other stuff I'm not going to bother about.
But you get the tip of the idea.
Now, again, activation effects by stellar spectra.
Red suns were starved.
Red suns are interesting.
As far as I figure out,
if kryptonite had a red sun,
and it inhibited the cave field, as one might imagine,
all the plutonium could cure that.
So, obviously, the effect of a red sun
must jam the spectral,
must jam the level of the cave field.
So, in fact, the Superman would really fly in the parks.
A red sun.
His cave field would jam at that level
for a while, at this point.
So, in fact, you couldn't even even fly around.
And if you were up on the earth, going to jam,
ah, yeah.
Yeah, gold kryptonite's easy.
It just simply jabs the input and output of energy.
He's stuck.
No superpowers, and he's gone.
No worries.
Family jam.
Poisoning effects, right.
But also, okay, question for you.
What have I left out?
Brain.
Iron, hydrogen, grain, water.
Why?
How's it done?
I'm fine now.
Destroyers can't.
That's why.
Why?
The blue straw is the Zara.
You have no patience.
Oh, yeah.
How can we get far through the universe
where we haven't looked at planets when they were with us?
You didn't know how to read them.
I'll read bread.
It's easy.
If everyone's breathing, everyone's voice is gone.
He would normally suffocate, except the cannibal will continue to destroy,
or live in the state.
He doesn't need to breathe.
In other words, he's dying on the planet.
That's right, he's dying on the planet.
Earth, gold, kryptonite, iron, iron, iron, iron.
He's invented it, isn't he?
Pacing and cutting.
Actually, I've taken all these speculations purely in terms of
a neutron planet.
The normal speculations, the normal speculations is in fact,
neutron, see, talking with neutron planets,
there's nothing he's known about them.
They don't explode.
But there is one bloody astronomical objective.
We haven't seen, we think it's there, or was there,
that did explode.
None of the big bang.
If kryptonite were the big bang, it might explain how well it's superpowered.
Very quickly, that's what it looks like.
It will also imply that in fact, as mass goes,
he's got the mass of a galaxy's thought away inside him,
which is in the form of energy.
It's no wonder it's so bloody infrastructure,
where you can't get enough energy up to a nuclear-rubble effect.
Oh yeah, interesting effect when you look at it.
Foundry.
You have a potential barrier, or actually potential well,
which has got so much potential,
with anything that's very important.
I mean, you know, it's like saying,
you've got this incredibly deep well,
and you walk up to the well, and you've topped something into it,
and it's just forward, right?
Yeah, it's like on top of a cliff,
and it throws up the other cliff, and it goes like,
sip, except in nuclear conditions,
you get potential wells, and in fact, they're so deep,
that in fact, you can't throw things into them,
because they were black from it.
So in fact, if he's got so much energy stored into it,
he'll reflect the matter to what were there.
This is the one that we need to be actually modulating.
Otherwise, if he takes a step,
he pushes it away with a floor underneath,
things like that, and he can just keep going,
and it goes straight to the other.
And that's being modulated.
Ah yes, he's modulated, of course.
It's made of, in fact, nothing's modulated.
In fact, it's made of destructive forces.
Not destructive, but it can quite easily
make itself more like human beings.
Ordinary human beings.
Why? Why?
Why have they?
Why not?
Why did you say that you're going to put a floor underneath?
When he flies past the planet, he's going to red sun.
Usually drops to the planet, he doesn't keep flying,
like he said.
Right, so, how can I have a DC-colored stuff like that?
What probability would you say would it exist on the planet?
I could say that it could be 350,000.
One thing I don't have on the moon now is the planet.
Right.
So in fact, all those people who have been at the city
with candor and a bottle will have a lot of tools.
Not just that, but there's some from the visitors who have
put the candor through the time barriers.
Ah, why couldn't...
Why fit?
Do you see that, though?
Not as Jim Harris as we fit.
You're completely sick of it.
We've got giants helping us.
I think we're sort of...
I thought you were going to put on a...
I think we're going to put on some Andy Gromwells.
Well, obviously, technology is the technology.
Actually, we've thrown a slide. There's some interesting stuff.
We'll put backwards, actually, rather than forwards.
Okay.
Superman typically breaking a chain of kryptonite.
I'll go through them until you get through it.
That's it.
There should be three more after that, actually.
You're all lying.
I'm going to make the one you wouldn't want me to put in your bag.
Well, this one shows Superman doing...
Actually, this is incredible.
A man who can do everything. Why doesn't he take over the world?
Nothing to him.
That's probably why.
Because he's a kryptonite, a kryptonite of blow-gain.
Actually, psychologically, the man would be incredibly interesting.
Everyone says, you know, right, he can do everything,
but where's the challenge?
He's willing to help creatures which are, in fact,
pathetically weak by his standards and incredibly moronic.
Psychologies, but continue through the slides.
Now we get to the funny one, I do.
This is a funny one. I'll take three parts.
That's the first one.
Actually, it's the second one.
There's someone off on the bloody slides.
Show us the next one.
That is the first slot.
Show us the second one.
That's the second one.
We've proved it on the third one.
The last one.
Take that cassette off. We're going to go into the last one.
We've been well-proven.
They're quite fascinating stuff.
The focus is off.
Oh, yes, folks.
I just had a time count.
For those of you who attend the bank at 8 o'clock,
you're going to intend to leave in half an hour later.
We're sort of empirical type science.
You know, sort of stuff you can work out
if you look up the physics and the chemistry and the biology,
and you want to back your brains out about it.
But this kind of stuff, in fact, is what...
Let's run the swab, though.
They're all rather swab, actually.
This is what you can do if you just use your imagination.
What Brian Orles calls a Runcible Science Factor,
as opposed to the empirical, which is more hard-line, rationalistic,
and logical, which, of course, has got a lot of pleasure,
but it's damn hard work.
Continue.
This stuff, of course, requires a lot more imagination.
Now, let's go back to...
Bishop Godwin's thing, very pretty, this weird idea.
Quite squabbles of swans.
Pegasus in, well, a boxy version.
But to continue.
Pretty bad, that one.
It's quite a nice start, but...
It includes a...
Oh, well, let's go along.
That's what the background feels, right?
You're right. That is a flying elephant, of course.
Flying elephant.
Continue.
Is it a directional record, please?
Yes, it is, actually.
That is a little fly...
That one is a flying elephant.
A flying elephant.
About to swoop, actually.
Continue.
That one is up side down, but it probably doesn't matter with that one.
That one is very pretty.
Continue.
Yes, an old crater.
What a trot.
Very nice.
Another battle scene.
A kind of armadillac, a few armadillas.
Nasty growings in a groveiness.
And armadillas.
God, what a crowd.
Much more like things rearing out of the ground like fish.
Resting on top of one of them, obviously.
Yeah.
And these are mushroom type things which are floating in space, which is absolutely fantastic.
That slide, Regento, is really stuffed up.
It's pretty about that because they are very nice slides.
That can't be...is that the last one?
Well, is that on a little brook?
Oh, that little brook. Yes, yes.
Go ahead.
It's actually a map of the galaxy, the diameter of about 10,000 light years,
enlists the major astronomical objects within that space, centered on our sun.
Continue.
Here, these are our folks.
That is a Dr. Who as William Hartnell.
William Hartnell's Dr. Who.
That's John Fertwee at a TARDIS console, modern version.
I, Dalek, on what a high note.
Next one, please.
Oh, I'm fervent.
More Daleks.
Oh, beautiful.
More Daleks again.
It's quite discredited as well as Daleks.
And then Dalek again.
That's correct.
What a green belt.
That's Patrick Charlton's Dr. Who.
This is a follow-up on Dr. Who and that's John Fertwee being supplied, right, Dalek?
I doubt that Daleks is only supplied, but that's it, folks.
The following knowledge missed up the verse in the Appleville,
down which this presentation would have been impossible.
The Adventure Subcommittee, Dr. J. R. Patterson,
University of Adelaide Physics Department,
the State Library of South Australia,
Rod Hannah, Paul Stokes, Joy Window, and Tinaka Kempan.
Thank you, the auction will now.
Well, the first item on today's program is this deluxe edition of Skull Comics.
Any offers?
Ten cents, sir.
No, sir.
Tell them it's a big copy.
The only one with a second page around the wrong way.
Big mouth.
Ten cents.
Twenty.
Shown pictures.
That's a nice picture.
That's a strange picture.
Forty cents.
Showing another picture.
Forty cents. Do I hear anything more?
No.
Forty cents.
Number.
Forty.
Right.
Young lust.
Don't be filthy. How much am I offered?
Twenty.
Twenty cents.
Twenty-five.
Thirty.
Forty.
Forty-five.
Yes, forty-five cents. Do I hear anything more?
No.
God, sold to the man over there for forty-five.
One number bill.
Do they?
What's your number bill?
Number six.
Good.
Right. How much am I bid for this Kona?
Number six.
Mine is a hundred dollars.
Fifteen.
Twenty.
Twenty-five.
Thirty-five.
Forty.
Forty-five.
Sold.
Oh!
What's your number?
I think you make a ten cent interest.
You know, they make you a good interest.
Yes, I think so.
He's doing himself.
Now we have a Kona number seven.
How much am I bid for this?
Twenty cents.
Twenty cents over here.
Thirty-five.
Thirty up there.
Twenty-five.
Twenty-five, gentlemen.
Oh, we got an exit.
Twenty-five.
A rare item.
A collection of new worlds.
Numbers 18, 19, 21, 22, 30, 175,
176.
Stop.
Well, some of the small ones first.
Numbers 18, 19, 21, 22 and 30.
Twenty cents each.
Forty cents each.
Twenty-five.
Well, I think there are a couple of mine in there.
So I'll throw in an autograph and push it up a bit.
I think it's 50 cents.
Sorry.
I think you should also come and tell me if you have any questions.
We were also in the separate.
We'll have to get you to the separate.
I think it's broken up now.
New worlds 18.
Twenty.
Now we have some large new worlds
together.
Numbers 175,
176, 177, 178, 179, 186.
Paul.
One dollar.
Two dollars.
Three dollars.
You've got 350 here.
350, four.
I work after this actually.
It's all about the stories.
All about the stories, alright.
Sex, he's storing them.
He's just getting another 50 cent.
They shouldn't know what to do.
You've got four dollars.
Four dollars.
An advance on four.
Two bid for number one.
Number three.
Two large poor men, one logs.
August 1964, November 1963.
Number one.
Minimum.
Number 35, 36.
After couple.
Number four.
Thank you.
That's all I got.
I got three.
Separately.
One dollar.
That's all.
You're hearing an advance on a dollar.
One dollar.
Anymore.
Sold for dollar three.
Good day.
One dollar.
August 1964.
Not in really good need, is it, Christian?
Going with a dollar.
Go on with a dollar.
Together with a dollar.
I think I have to say, if you want to come in,
otherwise it should be open to everyone.
We've got a lot of stuff going on here.
We'll take one with a sign.
Just hold it up and here's the person who's going to say,
set.
As a set.
Authentic science fiction monthly.
Number 78, 79, 80 and 83.
Dollar.
Each.
Or set.
Set.
No, no, no.
Any invention?
Dollar 50, any more.
Number.
Two dollars.
Science fiction adventures.
Dollar.
Who is our lady?
No one.
As a set.
Volume one, number six, volume two, number seven,
volume eight, volume two, number eight,
volume two, number nine, volume two, number eleven,
volume three, number thirteen, volume three, number sixteen,
volume four, number twenty-four,
and volume five, number twenty-five.
Dollar.
Eight.
One dollar.
Three eight.
There's a lot of stories in there.
Yeah, a couple of those.
Shadow the sword.
You're always about to see a movie.
Hey, there's a Lee Harding story in that one.
Ah, shh.
I've got one.
The first appearance of the fellow outstripped world.
That's a bit of a dollar there.
It's a journey of nine for a dollar.
That should buy Lee Harding.
A Lee Harding story.
Oh.
Three dollars.
Anything worth three.
Come on.
Here we come to an interesting collection of fans.
Oh, great.
The first one is it?
Oh.
Boys' Own Fanzine.
Number one.
Number one, March, nineteen seventy-one.
How many more?
Fifty-four dollars.
Dollar.
That's happening.
Yeah.
Number thirty-two.
Ah, dollar fifty.
Dollar fifty from Lee Harding.
That's going to come in then.
Dollar eighty.
Two dollars.
That's why they don't send you copies.
Oh, it's certainly a piece of cool.
Hey, there's two dollars.
Store.
So, number...
Lee Harding.
Four dollars.
Five dollars.
Second item, speculation volume two, number eleven, July, nineteen sixty-nine.
Fifty cents.
Sixty.
Sixty cents.
Seventy-five.
Can I just interject a minute, Lee Harding?
Thank you.
Seventy-five.
Seventy-five cents.
Do I hear any advance on seventy-five cents?
What number?
One.
Soul.
I don't know which.
Fifty-two, I think.
What's this?
How many children do you have?
Right.
Huergen and Mugen, one, I believe.
Twenty-six.
Twenty-nine in fancy.
Is that the back of it or the front?
The front.
That's the front.
I was just going to introduce you to about one hundred and twenty-two...
Twenty cents.
Any advance on twenty cents?
First issue.
Can I hear any more?
Let's go on.
Yeah, let's go on.
Okay, five and three.
Three times and three.
Actually, back.
Go on.
Twenty cents.
Right.
Number.
That was a little bit worse.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
That's an interesting one.
Fifty cents.
What number is that?
The title.
Yeah, be a hemiah.
Be a hemiah.
Four.
Fifty cents.
One.
Do I hear any advance on fifty cents?
What is it?
That's a book, you nit.
Fifty cents.
One of the best names.
Three times.
That's all for fifty cents.
Thank you.
All right.
There's another one.
Fifty cents.
Number ten this time?
Sixty.
Seventy-five.
Be a hemiah number ten.
Seventy-five cents.
Seventy-five three.
Science fiction review.
Number forty,.
Sixty cents.
Seventy, seventy-five.
Ninety.
Two in city, number five and number four.
$20.
Any advance on a dollar?
Two.
What is that?
You.
I don't know.
Sold for a dollar.
I did twice.
Number?
Oh, a science victim review number 41.
There's two in this.
$0.50.
$0.60.
$0.75.
Sold for $0.75.
Oh, it's fantastic.
Winter $0.90.
$0.71.
$0.50.
$0.60.
$0.70.
$0.80.
Go, go, go.
Any advance on $0.80?
Sold to the lady at the back for $0.80.
Number?
The number of her ever bought this.
That's the odd number before he passes it on.
$0.50.
How about $1.30?
He's trying to get it.
I think he'll have his bits like everyone else
for the funk and the alien whisper.
I finished now.
Now we're launching to our vast range of paperbacks.
Ace, Siri the Sun, Samuel Ardolani.
$0.90.
$0.65.
We un-revised the original.
That is part of the set.
Un-sensate.
Un-sensate. How much?
How much? Anybody?
They wouldn't like to have that.
They wouldn't be touching with you.
Robert Heinlein, farmer in the sky.
$0.40.
Sold for $0.40.
What's your number, kid?
$0.42.
Herbert De Castle, the reassembled man.
$0.20.
$0.25.
How much?
$0.30.
$0.40.
How much?
Sold very cleanly, but $0.40.
Your number, sir?
$0.35.
What number was that?
$0.25.
Conor Seawes, SF.
$0.30.
$0.31.
Just kidding, assistant.
Analog Men.
God, not worth it.
Damon Knight.
It's about an Android.
$0.10.
$0.20.
Sold for $0.20.
Number $0.22.
Robert A.
Roberta Heinlein, the profit master.
I'll take it if you give me $3.
I'll sign it by KJ Stenson.
Whoever that is.
$0.1960.
$0.20.
No, you got $0.10.
$0.10.
$0.5 bit.
$0.20.
$0.22.
We didn't hear you.
We can't hear you.
We've got a list of down here.
$0.10.
Any advance?
$0.40.
$0.50.
Sold for $0.50.
$0.57.
$0.00.
An H double.
A Tows of Torren by Samuel Adelaide.
And the Lunar Eye by Robert Orr Williams.
$0.20.
$0.0.
$0.30.
$0.50.
$4.50.
$0..
$0.50.
$Mo.
The darkness before tomorrow, Robert Moore Williams.
20 cents. 25. 30. 40. 50. 60.
Sold for 60 cents, which were number six. Number 26.
More penguin science fiction. Anyone?
10 cents.
20. 20 cents.
Sold for 20 cents. Number 39. Good.
The flesh and the furnace. A science fiction novel by D. N. R. Coots.
10 cents.
You've got 10 cents.
20. 30.
40. 50.
55.
Sold for 55.
Number 39. The Goolkeepers.
It's edited by Leo Moguilli. 10 cents.
20 cents. 25. 30.
35. 40. 45.
50. 55.
25.
Sold to Murray Peak for 45.
55. What's your number? 22.
Oh no.
Oh, the brilliant novel here. Something no collector should be without.
Strangers at Collins House by Marilyn Ross.
I was in the whole set.
I withdraw my 10 cents.
I got 30 cents.
Is that a dark shirt? Yes.
Sold for 19 cents.
A Tacker Ways.
Cycle of Nemesis by Keith Volmer.
20.
25.
No number.
I don't want to do it.
The Dark Symphony by D. N. R. Coots. 20 cents.
25.
65.
I think you meant 65.
25.
Science Fiction edited by John W. Campbell.
25 cents.
35.
Sold to 40. 35.
In the dazzling tradition of 2001 at Space Odyssey, a world by the tail.
10 cents. How much? 30 cents.
40 cents.
No number.
10 cents.
Counter Commandment, Anilogue 5. 30.
30 cents.
Go on for 30 cents.
Master's Choice, Numbers 1 and 2.
As a set.
20 cents.
70 cents.
$1.25.
$1.30. $1.40.
$1.50.
$4.15.
$57. $1.50.
James Blish, The Warriors of Day. 10 cents.
20. 25.
30.
10.
Arthur C. Clarke, The Deep Range. 10 cents.
20 cents.
Is that you?
30 cents. 30 cents.
30 cents.
$10.
$20.
$1.75.
$1.30.
$1.50.
$20.
$40.
$60.
$20.
$40.
$65.
$25.
$35.
$27.
$30.
$50.
$65.
$75.
$21.
$25.
$35.
$51.
$31.
$35.
$40.
$38.
$3.
$30.
$39.
$50.
$40.
$10.
$20.